INTRODUCTIONNature compels us all to move through life. We could not remain stationary however muchwe wished. Every right-thinking person wants not merely to move through life like a soundproducing, perambulating plant, but to develop – to improve – and to continue the developmentmentally to the close of physical life.This development can occur only through the improvement of the quality of individualthought and the ideals, actions and conditions that arise as a consequence. Hence a study of thecreative processes of thought and how to apply them is of supreme importance to each one ofus. This knowledge is the means whereby the volution of human life on earth may be hastenedand uplifted in the process.Humanity ardently seeks “The Truth” and explores every avenue to it. In this process it hasproduced a special literature, which ranges the whole gamut of thought from the trivial to thesublime – up from Divination, through all the Philosophies, to the final lofty Truth of “TheMaster Key”.The “Master Key” is here given to the world as a means of tapping the great cosmicintelligence and attracting from it that which corresponds to the ambitions, and aspirations ofeach reader.Every thing and institution we see around us, created by human agency, had first to existas a thought in some human mind. Thought therefore is constructive. Human thought is thespiritual power of the cosmos operating through its creature man. “The Master Key” instructsthe reader how to use that power, and use it both constructively and creatively. The things andconditions we desire to become realities we must first create in thought. “The Master Key”explains and guides the process………“The Master Key” teaching has hitherto been published in the form of a CorrespondenceCourse of 24 lessons, delivered to students one per week for 24 weeks. The reader, who nowreceives the whole 24 parts at one times, is warned not to attempt to read the book like a novel,but to treat it as a course of study and conscientiously to imbibe the meaning of each part –reading and re-reading one part only per week before proceeding to the next. Otherwise the laterparts will tend to be misunderstood and the reader’s time and money will be wasted.Used as thus instructed “The Master Key” will make of the reader a greater, betterpersonality, and equipped with a new power to achieve any worthy personal purpose and a newability to enjoy life’s beauty and wonder.F.H. BURGESS6FOREWORDSome men seem to attract success, power, wealth, attainment, with very little consciouseffort; others conquer with great difficulty; still others fail altogether to reach their ambitions,desires and ideals. Why is this so: Why should some men realize their ambitions easily, otherswith difficulty, and still others not at all? The cause cannot be physical, else the most perfectmen, physically, would be the most successful. The difference, therefore, must be mental -must be in the mind; hence mind must be the creative force, must constitute the sole differencebetween men. It is mind, therefore, which overcomes environment and every other obstacle inthe path of men.When the creative power of thought is fully understood, its effect will be seen to bemarvelous. But such results cannot be secured without proper application, diligence, andconcentration. The student will find that the laws governing in the mental and spiritual world areas fixed and infallible as in the material world. To secure the desired results, then, it is necessaryto know the law and to comply with it. A proper compliance with the law will be found toproduce the desired result with invariable exactitude. The student who learns that power comesfrom within, that he is weak only because he has depended on help from outside, and whounhesitatingly throws himself on his own thought, instantly rights himself, stands erect, assumesa dominant attitude, and works miracles.It is evident, therefore, that he who fails to fully investigate and take advantage of thewonderful progress which is being made in this last and greatest science, will soon be as farbehind as the man who would refuse to acknowledge and accept the benefits which have accruedto mankind through an understanding of the laws of electricity.Of course, mind creates negative conditions just as readily as favorable conditions, andwhen we consciously or unconsciously visualize every kind of lack, limitation and discord, wecreate these conditions; this is what many are unconsciously doing all the time.This law as well as every other law is no respecter of persons, but is in constant operationand is relentlessly bringing to each individual exactly what he has created; in other words,"Whatsoever a man soweth that shall he also reap."Abundance, therefore, depends upon a recognition of the laws of Abundance, and the factthat Mind is not only the creator, but the only creator of all there is. Certainly nothing can becreated, before we know that it can be created and then make the proper effort. There is no moreElectricity in the world today than there was fifty years ago, but until someone recognized the lawby which it could be made of service, we received no benefit; now that the law is understood,practically the whole world is lit by it. so with the law of Abundance; it is only those whorecognize the law and place themselves in harmony with it, who share in its benefits.The scientific spirit now dominates every field of effort, relations of cause and effect are nolonger ignored.The discovery of a region of law marked and epoch in human progress. It eliminated theelement of uncertainty and caprice mens lives, and substituted law, reason and certitude.Men now understand that for every result there is an adequate and definite cause, so thatwhen a given result is desired, they seek the condition by which alone this result may be attained.7The basis upon which all law rests was discovered by inductive reasoning which consists ofcomparing a number of separate instances with one another until the common factor which givesrise to them all is seen.It is this method of study to which the civilized nations owe the greater part of theirprosperity and the more valuable part of their knowledge; it has lengthened life, it has mitigatedpain, it has spanned rivers, it has brightened the night with the splendor of day, extended therange of vision, accelerated motion, annihilated distance, facilitated intercourse, and enabledmen to descend into the sea, and into the air, what wonder then that men soon endeavored toextend the blessings of this system of study to their method of thinking, so that when it becameplainly evident that certain results followed a particular method of thinking it only remained toclassify these results.This is method is scientific, and it is the only method by which we shall be permitted retainthat degree of liberty and freedom which we have been accustomed to look upon as aninalienable right, because a people is safe at home and in the world only if national preparednessmean such things as growing surplus of health, accumulated efficiency in public and privatebusiness of whatever sort, continuous advance in the science and art of acting together, and theincreasingly dominant endeavor to make all of these and all other aspects of nationaldevelopment center and revolve about ascending life, single and collective, for which science, artand ethics furnish guidance and controlling motives.The Master Key is based on absolute scientific truth and will unfold the possibilities that liedormant in the individual, and teach how they may be brought into powerful action, to increasethe person's effective capacity, bringing added energy, discernment, vigor and mental elasticity.The student who gains an understanding of the mental laws which re unfolded will come intothe possession of an ability to secure results hitherto undreamed of, and which has rewardshardly to be expressed in words.It explains the correct use of both the receptive and active elements of the mental nature, andinstructs the student in the recognition of opportunity; it strengthens the will and reasoningpowers, and teaches the cultivation and best uses of imagination, desire, the emotions and theintuitional faculty. It gives initiative, tenacity of purpose, wisdom of choice, intelligent sympathyand a thorough enjoyment of life on its higher planes.The Master Key teaches the use of Mind Power, true Mind Power, not any of the substitutesand perversions; it has nothing to do with Hypnotism, Magic or any of the more or lessfascinating deceptions by which many are led to think that something can be had for nothing.The Master Key cultivates and develops the understanding which will enable you to controlthe body and thereby the health. It improves and strengthens the Memory. It develops Insight, thekind of Insight which is so rare, the kind which is the distinguishing characteristic of everysuccessful business man, the kind which enables men to see the possibilities as well as thedifficulties in every situation, the kind which enables men to discern opportunity close at hand,for thousands fail to see opportunities almost within their grasp while they are industriouslyworking with situations which under no possibility can be made to realize any substantial return.The Master Key develops Mental Power which means that others instinctively recognizethat you are a person of force, of character - that they want to do what you want them to do; itmeans that you attract men and things to you; that you are what some people call "lucky", that"things" come you way' that you have come into an8understanding of the fundamental laws of Nature, and have put yourself in harmony with them;that you are in tune with Infinite; that you understand the law of attraction, the Natural laws ofgrowth, and the Psychological laws on which all advantages in the he social and business worldrest.Mental Power is creative power, it gives you the ability to create for yourself; it does notmean the ability to take something away from some one else. Nature never does things that way.Nature makes two blades for grass grow where one grew before, and Mind Power enables mento do the same thing.The Master Key develops insight and sagacity increased independence, the ability anddisposition to be helpful' it destroys distrust, depression, fear, melancholia, and every form of lacklimitation and weakness, including pain and disease; it awakens buried talents, supplies initiative,force, energy, vitality - it awakens an appreciation of the beautiful in Art, Literature and Science.It has changed the lives of thousands of men and women, by substituting definite principlesfor uncertain and hazy methods - and principles for the foundation upon which every system ofefficiency must rest.Elbert Gary, the chairman of the United States Steel Corporation, said "The services ofadvisors, instructors, efficiency experts in successful management are indispensable to mostbusiness enterprises of magnitude, but I deem the recognition and adoption of right principlesvastly more importance. "The Master Key teaches right principles, and suggests methods formaking a practical application of the principles; in that it differs from every other course of study.It teaches that the only possible value which can attach to any principle is in its application. Manyread books, take home study courses, attend lectures all their lives without ever making anyprogress in demonstrating the value of the principles involved. The Master Key suggests methodsby which the value of the principles taught may be demonstrated and put in actual practice in thedaily experience.There is a change in the thought of the world. This change is silently transpiring in ourmidst, and is more important than any which the world has undergone since the downfall ofPaganism.The present revolution in the opinions of all classes of men, the highest and most cultured ofmen as well as those of the laboring class, stands unparalleled in the history of the world.Science has of late mad such vast discoveries, has revealed such an infinity of resources, hasunveiled such enormous possibilities and such unsuspected forces, that scientific men more andmore hesitate to affirm certain theories as established and indubitable or to deny certain othertheories as absurd or impossible, and so a new civilization is being born' customs, creeds, andcruelty are passing; vision, faith and service are taking their place. The fetters of tradition arebeing melted off from humanity, and as the dross of materialism is being consumed, thought isbeing liberated and truth is rising full orbed before an astonished multitude.The whole world is on the eve of a new consciousness, a new power and a newconsciousness, a new power and a new realization of the resources within the self. The lastcentury saw the most magnificent material progress in history. The present century willproduce the greatest progress in mental and spiritual power.Physical Science has resolved matter into molecules, molecules into atoms, atoms into energy,and it has remained for Sir Ambrose Fleming, in an address before the Royal9Institution, to resolve this energy into mind. He says: "In its ultimate essence, energy may beincomprehensible by us except as an exhibition of the direct operation of that which we call Mindor Will."Let us see what are the most powerful forces in Nature. In the mineral world everything issolid and fixed. In the animal and vegetable kingdom it is in a state of flux, forever changing,always being created and recreated. In the atmosphere we find heat, light and energy. Each realmbecomes finer and more spiritual as we pass from the visible to the invisible, from the coarse tothe fine, from the low potentiality to high potentiality. When we reach the invisible we findenergy in its purest and most volatile state.And as the most powerful forces of Nature are the invisible forces, so we find that the mostpowerful forces of man are his invisible forces, his spiritual force, and the only way in which thespiritual force can manifest is through the process of thinking. Thinking is the only activitywhich the spirit possesses, and thought is the only product of thinking.Addition and subtraction are therefore spiritual transactions; reasoning is a spiritualprocess; ideas are spiritual conceptions; questions are spiritual searchlights and logic,argument and philosophy is spiritual machinery.Every thought brings into action certain physical tissue, parts of the brain, nerve or muscle.This produces an actual physical change in the construction of the tissue. therefore it is onlynecessary to have a certain number of thoughts on a given subject in order to bring about acomplete change in the physical organization of a man.This is the process by which failure is changed to success. Thoughts of courage, power,inspiration, harmony, are substituted for thoughts of failure, despair, lack, limitation and discord,and as these thoughts take root, the physical tissue is changed and the individual sees life in anew light, old things have actually passed away, all things have become new, he is born again,this time born of the spirit, life has a new meaning for him, he is reconstructed and is filled withjoy, confidence, hope, energy. He sees opportunities for success to which he was heretoforeblind. He recognizes possibilities which before had no meaning for him. The thoughts of successwith which he has been impregnated are radiated to those around him, and they in turn help himonward and upward; he attract to him new and successful associates, and this in turn changes hisenvironment; so that by this simple exercise of thought, a man changes not only himself, but hisenvironment, circumstances and conditions.You will see, you must see, that we are at the dawn of a new day; that the possibilities are sowonderful, so fascinating, so limitless as to be almost bewildering. A century ago any man withand aeroplane or even a Gatling gun could have annihilated a whole army equipped with theimplements of warfare then in use. So it is at present. Any man with a knowledge of thepossibilities contained in the Master Key has an inconceivable advantage over the multitude.10INTRODUCTION - PART ONEIt is my privilege to enclose herewith Part One of The Master Key System. Would you bringinto your life more power, get the power consciousness, more health, get the healthconsciousness, more happiness, get the happiness consciousness. Live the spirit of these thingsuntil they become yours by right. It will then become impossible to keep them from you. Thethings of the world are fluid to a power within man by which he rulesthem.You need not acquire this power. You already have it. But you want to understand it; youwant to use it; you want to control it; you want to impregnate yourself with it, so that you can goforward and carry the world before you.Day by day as you go on and on, as you gain momentum, as your inspiration deepens, asyour plans crystallize, as you gain understanding, you will come to realize that this world is nodead pile of stones and timber, but that it is a living thing! It is made up of the beating hearts ofhumanity. It is a thing of life and beauty.It is evident that it requires understanding to work with material of this description, but thosewho come into this understanding, are inspired by a new light, a new force, they gain confidenceand greater power each day, they realize their hopes and their dreams come true, life has a deeper,fuller, clearer meaning than before.And, now, Part One....11PART ONE1. That much gathers more is true on every plane of existence and that loss leads to greaterloss is equally true.2. Mind is creative, and conditions, environment and all experiences in life are the result ofour habitual or predominant mental attitude.3. The attitude of mind necessarily depends upon what we think. Therefore, the secret of allpower, all achievement and all possession depends upon our method of thinking.4. This is true because we must "be" before we can "do," and we can "do" only to theextent which we "are," and what we "are" depends upon what we "think."5. We cannot express powers that we do not possess. The only way by which we maysecure possession of power is to become conscious of power, and we can neverbecome conscious of power until we learn that all power is from within.6. There is a world within – a world of thought and feeling and power; of light and life andbeauty and, although invisible, its forces are mighty.7. The world within is governed by mind. When we discover this world we shall find thesolution for every problem, the cause for every effect; and since the world within issubject to our control, all laws of power and possession are also within our control.8. The world without is a reflection of the world within. What appears without is what hasbeen found within. In the world within may be found infinite Wisdom, infinite Power,infinite Supply of all that is necessary, waiting for unfoldment, development andexpression. If we recognize these potentialities in the world within they will take formin the world without.9. Harmony in the world within will be reflected in the world without by harmoniousconditions, agreeable surroundings, the best of everything. It is the foundation ofhealth and a necessary essential to all greatness, all power, all attainment, allachievement and all success.10. Harmony in the world within means the ability to control our thoughts, and todetermine for ourselves how any experience is to affect us.1211. Harmony in the world within results in optimism and affluence; affluence within resultsin affluence without.12. The world without reflects the circumstances and the conditions of theconsciousness within.13. If we find wisdom in the world within, we shall have the understanding to discern themarvelous possibilities that are latent in this world within, and we shall be given the powerto make these possibilities manifest in the world without.14. As we become conscious of the wisdom in the world within, we mentally takepossession of this wisdom, and by taking mental possession we come into actualpossession of the power and wisdom necessary to bring into manifestation the essentialsnecessary for our most complete and harmonious development.15. The world within is the practical world in which the men and women of power generatecourage, hope, enthusiasm, confidence, trust and faith, by which they are given the fineintelligence to see the vision and the practical skill to make the vision real.16. Life is an unfoldment, not accretion. What comes to us in the world without is whatwe already possess in the world within.17. All possession is based on consciousness. All gain is the result of an accumulativeconsciousness. All loss is the result of a scattering consciousness.18. Mental efficiency is contingent upon harmony; discord means confusion; therefore,he who would acquire power must be in harmony with Natural Law.19. We are related to the world without by the objective mind. The brain is the organ of thismind and the cerebro-spinal system of nerves puts us in conscious communication withevery part of the body. This system of nerves responds to every sensation of light, heat,odor, sound and taste.20. When this mind thinks correctly, when it understands the truth, when the thoughts sentthrough the cerebro-spinal nervous system to the body are constructive, these sensationsare pleasant, harmonious.21. The result is that we build strength, vitality and all constructive forces into our body, butit is through this same objective mind that all distress, sickness, lack, limitation and everyform of discord and in harmony is admitted to our lives. It is13therefore through the objective mind, by wrong thinking, that we are related to alldestructive forces.22. We are related to the world within by the subconscious mind. The solar plexus is theorgan of this mind; the sympathetic system of nerves presides over all subjectivesensations, such as joy, fear, love, emotion, respiration, imagination and all othersubconscious phenomena. It is through the subconscious that we are connected with theUniversal Mind and brought into relation with the Infinite constructive forces of theUniverse.23. It is the coordination of these two centers of our being, and the understanding of theirfunctions, which is the great secret of life. With this knowledge we can bring theobjective and subjective minds into conscious cooperation and thus coordinate the finiteand the infinite. Our future is entirely within our own control. It is not at the mercy ofany capricious or uncertain external power.24. All agree that there is but one Principle or Consciousness pervading the entireUniverse, occupying all space, and being essentially the same in kind at every pointof its presence. It is all powerful, all wisdom and always present. All thoughts andthings are within Itself. It is all in all.25. There is but one consciousness in the universe able to think; and when it thinks, itsthoughts become objective things to it. As this Consciousness is omnipresent, it mustbe present within every individual; each individual must be a manifestation of thatOmnipotent, Omniscient and Omnipresent Consciousness.26. As there is only one Consciousness in the Universe that is able to think it necessarilyfollows that your consciousness is identical with the Universal Consciousness, or, inother words, all mind is one mind. There is no dodging this conclusion.27. The consciousness that focuses in your brain cells is the same consciousness whichfocuses in the brain cells of every other individual. Each individual is but theindividualization of the Universal, the Cosmic Mind.28. The Universal Mind is static or potential energy; it simply is; it can manifest onlythrough the individual, and the individual can manifest only through the Universal. Theyare one.29. The ability of the individual to think is his ability to act on the Universal and bring itinto manifestation. Human consciousness consists only in the ability of man to think. Mindin itself is believed to be a subtle form of static energy, from14which arises the activities called 'thought, ' which is the dynamic phase of mind. Mindis static energy, thought is dynamic energy -the two phases of the same thing. Thoughtis therefore the vibratory force formed by converting static mind into dynamic mind.30. As the sum of all attributes are contained in the Universal Mind, which is Omnipotent,Omniscient and Omnipresent, these attributes must be present at all times in theirpotential form in every individual. Therefore, when the individual thinks, the thought iscompelled by its nature to embody itself in an objectivity or condition which willcorrespond with its origin.31. Every thought therefore is a cause and every condition an effect; for this reason it isabsolutely essential that you control your thoughts so as to bring forth only desirableconditions.32. All power is from within, and is absolutely under your control; it comes through exactknowledge and by the voluntary exercises of exact principles.33. It should be plain that when you acquire a thorough understanding of this law, and areable to control your thought processes, you can apply it to any condition; in other words,you will have come into conscious cooperation with Omnipotent law which is thefundamental basis of all things.34. The Universal Mind is the life principle of every atom which is in existence; every atomis continually striving to manifest more life; all are intelligent, and all are seeking tocarry out the purpose for which they were created.35. A majority of mankind lives in the world without; few have found the world within, andyet it is the world within that makes the world without; it is therefore creative andeverything which you find in your world without has been created by you in the worldwithin.36. This system will bring you into a realization of power which will be yours when youunderstand this relation between the world without and the world within. The worldwithin is the cause, the world without the effect; to change the effect you must changethe cause.37. You will at once see that this is a radically new and different idea; most men try tochange effects by working with effects. They fail to see that this is simply changingone form of distress for another. To remove discord, we must remove the cause, andthis cause can be found only in the world within.1538. All growth is from within. This is evident in all nature. Every plant, every animal, everyhuman is a living testimony to this great law, and the error of the ages is in looking forstrength or power from without.39. The world within is the Universal fountain of supply, and the world without is the outletto the stream. Our ability to receive depends upon our recognition of this UniversalFountain, this Infinite Energy of which each individual is an outlet, and so is one withevery other individual.40. Recognition is a mental process, mental action is therefore the interaction of theindividual upon the Universal Mind, and as the Universal Mind is the intelligence whichpervades all space and animates all living things, this mental action and reaction is thelaw of causation, but the principle of causation does not obtain in the individual but inthe Universal Mind. It is not an objective faculty but a subjective process, and the resultsare seen in an infinite variety of conditions and experiences.41. In order to express life there must be mind; nothing can exist without mind.Everything which exists is some manifestation of this one basic substance from whichand by which all things have been created and are continually being recreated.42. We live in a fathomless sea of plastic mind substance. This substance is ever alive andactive. It is sensitive to the highest degree. It takes form according to the mental demand.Thought forms the mold or matrix from which the substance expresses.43. Remember that it is in the application alone that the value consists, and that a practicalunderstanding of this law will substitute abundance for poverty, wisdom for ignorance,harmony for discord and freedom for tyranny, and certainly there can be no greater blessingthan these from a material and social standpoint.44. Now make the application: Select a room where you can be alone and undisturbed; siterect, comfortably, but do not lounge; let your thoughts roam where they will but beperfectly still for from fifteen minutes to half an hour; continue this for three or fourdays or for a week until you secure full control of your physical being.45. Many will find this extremely difficult; others will conquer with ease, but it is absolutelyessential to secure complete control of the body before you are ready to progress. Nextweek you will receive instructions for the next step; in the meantime you must havemastered this one.16PART ONE - Study Questions with Answers1. What is the world without in its relation to the world within? The world without is areflection of the world within.2. Upon what does all possession depend? All possession is based on consciousness. 3. How isthe individual related to the objective world? The individual is related to the objective worldby the objective mind; the brain is the organ of this mind. 4. How is he related to the UniversalMind? He is related to the Universal Mind by the subconscious mind; the Solar Plexus is theorgan of this mind.5. What is the Universal Mind? The Universal Mind is the life principle of every atom whichis in existence.6. How can the Individual act on the Universal? The ability of the individual to think is hisability to act upon the Universal and bring it into manifestation. 7. What is the result of thisaction and interaction? The result of this action and interaction is cause and effect; everythought is a cause and every condition an effect. 8. How are harmonious and desirableconditions secured? Harmonious and desirable conditions are obtained by right thinking.9. What is the cause of all discord, inharmony, lack and limitation? Discord,inharmony, lack and limitation are the result of wrong thinking.10. What is the source of all powers? The source of all power is the world within, theUniversal Fountain of Supply, the Infinite Energy of which each individual is an outlet.17INTRODUCTION - PART TWOOur difficulties are largely due to confused ideas and ignorance of our true interests. Thegreat task is to discover the laws of nature to which we are to adjust ourselves. Clear thinkingand moral insight are, therefore, of incalculable value. All processes, even those of thought, reston solid foundations.The keener the sensibilities, the more acute the judgment, the more delicate the taste, themore refined the moral feelings, the more subtle the intelligence, the loftier the aspiration--thepurer and more intense are the gratifications which existence yields. Hence it is that the study ofthe best that has been thought in the world gives supreme pleasure.The powers, uses and possibilities of the mind under the new interpretations are incomparablymore wonderful that the most extravagant accomplishment, or even dreams of material progress.Thought is energy. Active thought is active energy; concentrated thought is a concentratedenergy. Thought concentrated on a definite purpose becomes power. This is the power which isbeing used by those who do not believe in the virtue of poverty, or the beauty of self-denial. Theyperceive that this is the talk of weaklings.The ability to receive and manifest this power depends upon the ability to recognize theInfinite Energy ever dwelling in man, constantly creating and recreating his body and mind, andready at any moment to manifest through him in any needful manner. In exact proportion to therecognition of this truth will be the manifestation in the outer life of the individual.Part two explains the method by which this is accomplished.18PART TWO1. The operations of the mind are produced by two parallel modes of activity, the oneconscious, and the other subconscious. Professor Davidson says: "He who thinks toilluminate the whole range of mental action by the light of his own consciousness isnot unlike the one who should go about to illuminate the universe with a rushlight."2. The subconscious' logical processes are carried on with a certainty and regularity whichwould be impossible if there existed the possibility of error. Our mind is so designed thatit prepares for us the most important foundations of cognition, whilst we have not theslightest apprehension of the modus operandi.3. The subconscious soul, like a benevolent stranger, works and makes provision for ourbenefit, pouring only the mature fruit into our lap; thus ultimate analysis of thoughtprocesses shows that the subconscious is the theatre of the most important mentalphenomena.4. It is through the subconscious that Shakespeare must have perceived, without effort,great truths which are hidden from the conscious mind of the student; that Phidiasfashioned marble and bronze; that Raphael painted Madonnas and Beethovencomposed symphonies.5. Ease and perfection depend entirely upon the degree in which we cease to depend uponthe consciousness; playing the piano, skating, operating the typewriter, the skilled trades,depend for their perfect execution on the process of the sub conscious mind. The marvelof playing a brilliant piece on the piano, while at the same time conducting a vigorousconversation, shows the greatness of our subconscious powers.6. We are all aware how dependent we are upon the subconscious, and the greater, thenobler, the more brilliant our thoughts are, the more it is obvious to ourselves that theorigin lies beyond our ken. We find ourselves endowed with tact, instinct, sense of thebeautiful in art, music, etc., or whose origin or dwelling place we are whollyunconscious.7. The value of the subconscious is enormous; it inspires us; it warns us; it furnishes us withnames, facts and scenes from the storehouse of memory. It directs our thoughts, tastes,and accomplishes tasks so intricate that no conscious mind, even if it had the power, hasthe capacity for.8. We can walk at will; we can raise the arm whenever we choose to do so; we can give ourattention through eye or ear to any subject at pleasure. On the other hand, we cannot stop ourheartbeats nor the circulation of the blood, nor the growth of19stature, nor the formation of nerve and muscle tissue, nor the building of thebones, nor many other important vital processes.9. If we compare these two sets of action, the one decreed by the will of the moment, and theother proceeding in majestic, rhythmic course, subject to no vascillation, but constant atevery moment, we stand in awe of the latter, and ask to have the mystery explained. Wesee at once that these are the vital processes of our physical life, and we cannot avoid theinference that these all-important functions are designedly withdrawn from the domain ofour outward will with its variations and transitions, and placed under the direction of apermanent and dependable power within us.10. Of these two powers, the outward and changeable has been termed the "Conscious Mind,"or the "Objective Mind" (dealing with outward objects). The interior power is called the"Subconscious Mind," or the "Subjective Mind," and besides its work on the mental planeit controls the regular functions which make physical life possible.11. It is necessary to have a clear understanding of their respective functions on the mentalplane, as well as of certain other basic principles. Perceiving and operating through thefive physical senses, the conscious mind deals with the impressions and objects of theoutward life.12. It has the faculty of discrimination, carrying with it the responsibility of choice. It has thepower of reasoning--whether inductive, deductive, analytical or syllogistic--and thispower may be developed to a high degree. It is the seat of the will with all the energiesthat flow therefrom.13. Not only can it impress other minds, but it can direct the subconscious mind. In thisway the conscious mind becomes the responsible ruler and guardian of thesubconscious mind. It is this high function which can completely reverse conditions inyour life.14. It is often true that conditions of fear, worry, poverty, disease, inharmony and evils of allkinds dominate us by reason of false suggestions accepted by the unguardedsubconscious mind. All this the trained conscious mind can entirely prevent by itsvigilant protective action. It may properly be called "the watchman at the gate" of thegreat subconscious domain.15. One writer has expressed the chief distinction between the two phases of mind thus:"Conscious mind is reasoning will. Subconscious mind is instinctive desire, the result ofpast reasoning will."16. The subconscious mind draws just and accurate inferences from premises furnished fromoutside sources. Where the premise is true, the subconscious mind reaches a faultlessconclusion, but, where the premise or suggestion is an error,20the whole structure falls. The subconscious mind does not engage in the process ofproving. It relies upon the conscious mind, "the watchman at the gate," to guard it frommistaken impressions.17. Receiving any suggestions as true, the subconscious mind at once proceeds to act thereonin the whole domain of its tremendous field of work. The conscious mind can suggesteither truth or error. If the latter, it is at the cost of wide-reaching peril to the wholebeing.18. The conscious mind ought to be on duty during every waking hour. When the"watchman" is "off guard," or when its calm judgment is suspended, under a variety ofcircumstances, then the subconscious mind is unguarded and left open to suggestion fromall sources. During the wild excitement of panic, or during the height of anger, or theimpulses of the irresponsible mob, or at any other time of unrestrained passion, theconditions are most dangerous. The sub- conscious mind is then open to the suggestionof fear, hatred, selfishness, greed, self- depreciation and other negative forces, derivedfrom surrounding persons or circumstances. The result is usually unwholesome in theextreme, with effects that may endure to distress it for a long time. Hence, the greatimportance of guarding the subconscious mind from false impressions.19. The subconscious mind perceives by intuition. Hence, its processes are rapid. It doesnot wait for the slow methods of conscious reasoning. In fact, it can not employ them.20. The subconscious mind never sleeps, never rests, any more than does your heart, or yourblood. It has been found that by plainly stating to the subconscious mind certain specificthings to be accomplished, forces are set in operation that lead to the result desired. Here,then, is a source of power which places us in touch with Omnipotence. Here in is a deepprinciple which is well worth our most earneststudy.21. The operation of this law is interesting. Those who put it into operation find that whenthey go out to meet the person with whom they anticipate a difficult interview,something has been there before them and dissolved the supposed differences;everything is changed; all is harmonious; they find that when some difficult businessproblem presents itself they can afford to make delay and something suggests theproper solution; everything is properly arranged; in fact, those who have learned totrust the subconscious find that they have infinite resources at their command.22. The subconscious mind is the seat of our principles and our aspirations. It is the fount ofour artistic and altruistic ideals. These instincts can only be overthrown by an elaborateand gradual process of undermining the innate principles.2123. The subconscious mind can not argue controversially. Hence, if it has accepted wrongsuggestions, the sure method of overcoming them is by the use of a strong countersuggestion, frequently repeated, which the mind must accept, thus eventually formingnew and healthy habits of thought and life, for the subconscious mind is the seat ofHabit. That which we do over and over becomes mechanical; it is no longer an act ofjudgment, but has worn its deep grooves in the subconscious mind. This is favorable forus if the habit be wholesome and right. If it be harmful, and wrong, the remedy is torecognize the omnipotence of the subconscious mind and suggest present actualfreedom. The subconscious being creative and one with our divine source will at oncecreate the freedom suggested.24. To sum up: The normal functions of the subconscious on the physical side have to dowith the regular and vital processes, with the preservation of life and the restoration ofhealth; with the care of offspring, which includes an instinctive desire to preserve all lifeand improve conditions generally.25. On the mental side, it is the storehouse of memory; it harbors the wonderful thoughtmessengers, who work, unhampered by time or space; it is the fountain of the practicalinitiative and constructive forces of life: It is the seat of habit.26. On the spiritual side, it is the source of ideals, of aspiration, of the imagination, and isthe channel through which we recognize our Divine Source, and in proportion as werecognize this divinity do we come into an understanding of the source of power.27. Some one may ask: "How can the subconscious change conditions?" The reply is,because the subconscious is a part of the Universal Mind and a part must be the same inkind and quality as the whole; the only difference is one of degree. The whole, as weknow, is creative, in fact, it is the only creator there is, consequently, we find that mind iscreative, and as thought is the only activity which the mind possesses thought mustnecessarily be creative also.28. But we shall find that there is a vast difference between simply thinking, and directingour thought consciously, systematically and constructively; when we do this we place ourmind in harmony with the Universal Mind, we come in tune with the Infinite, we set inoperation the mightiest force in existence, the creative power of the Universal Mind.This, as everything else, is governed by natural law, and this law is the "Law ofattraction," which is that Mind is creative, and will automatically correlate with its objectand bring it into manifestation.29. Last week I gave you an exercise for the purpose of securing control of the physical body;if you have accomplished this you are ready to advance. This time you will begin tocontrol your thought. Always take the same room, the same chair, and the same position,if possible. In some cases it is not convenient to take the same room, in this case simplymake the best use of such conditions as may be available. Now be perfectly still asbefore, but inhibit all thought; this will give22you control over all thoughts of care, worry and fear, and will enable you to entertainonly the kind of thoughts you desire. Continue this exercise until you gain completemastery.30. You will not be able to do this for more that a few moments at a time, but the exercise isvaluable, because it will be a very practical demonstration of the great number ofthoughts which are constantly trying to gain access to your mental world.31. Next week you will receive instructions for an exercise which may be a little moreinteresting, but it is necessary that you master this one first."Cause and effect is as absolute and undeviating in the hidden realm of thought as in the worldof visible and material things. Mind is the master weaver, both of the interior garment ofcharacter and the outer garment of circumstance." -- James Allen23PART TWO Study Questions with Answers11. What are the two modes of mental activity? Conscious and subconscious. 12. Uponwhat do ease and perfection depend? Ease and perfection depend entirely upon the degreein which we cease to depend upon the conscious mind. 13. What is the value of thesubconscious? It is enormous; it guides us, warns us, it controls the vital processes and is theseat of memory.14. What are some of the functions of the conscious mind? It has the faculty ofdiscrimination; it has the power of reasoning; it is the seat of the will and may impress thesubconscious.15. How has the distinction between the conscious and subconscious been expressed?"Conscious mind is reasoning will. Subconscious mind is instinctive desire, the result of pastreasoning will."16. What method is necessary in order to impress the subconscious? Mentally state what iswanted.17. What will be the result? If the desire is in harmony with the forward movement of the greatWhole, forces will be set in motion which will bring about the result. 18. What is the result ofthe operation of this law? Our environment reflects conditions corresponding to thepredominant mental attitude which we entertain. 19. What names has been given to this law?The Law of Attraction. 20. How is the law stated? Thought is a creative energy, and willautomatically correlate with is object and bring it into manifestation.24INTRODUCTION - PART THREEYou have found that the Individual may act on the Universal, and that the result of thisaction and interaction is cause and effect. Thought, therefore, is the cause, and the experienceswith which you meet in life are the effect.Eliminate, therefore, any possible tendency to complain of conditions as they have been,or as they are, because it rests with you to change them and make them what you would likethem to be.Direct your effort to a realization of the mental resources, always at your command, fromwhich all real and lasting power comes.Persist in this practice until you come to a realization of the fact that there can be no failurein the accomplishment of any proper object in life if you but understand your power and persistin your object, because the mind-forces are ever ready to lend themselves to a purposeful will, inthe effort to crystalize thought and desire into actions, events and conditions.Whereas in the beginning of each function of life and each action is the result of consciousthought, the habitual actions become automatic and the thought that controls them passes intothe realm of the subconscious; yet it is just as intelligent as before. It isnecessary that it become automatic, or subconscious, in order that the self-conscious mindmay attend to other things. The new actions will, however, in their turn, be come habitual,then automatic, then subconscious in order that the mind again may be freed from this detailand advanced to still other activities.When you realize this, you will have found a source of power which will enable you to takecare of any situation in life which may develop.25PART THREE1. The necessary interaction of the conscious and subconscious mind requires a similarinteraction between the corresponding systems of nerves. Judge Troward indicates thevery beautiful method in which this interaction is effected. He says: The cerebro-spinalsystem is the organ of the conscious mind and the sympathetic is the organ of thesubconscious. The cerebro-spinal is the channel through which we receive consciousperception from the physical senses and exercise control over the movements of thebody. This system of nerves has its centre in the brain.2. The Sympathetic System has its centre in a ganglionic mass at the back of thestomach known as the Solar Plexus, and is the channel of that mental action whichunconsciously supports the vital functions of the body.3. The connection between the two systems is made by the vagus nerve which passes out ofthe cerebral region as a portion of the voluntary system to the thorax, sending outbranches to the heart and lungs, and finally passing through the diaphragm, it loses itsouter coating and becomes identified with the nerves of the Sympathetic System, soforming a connecting link between the two and making man physically a "single entity".4. We have seen that every thought is received by the brain, which is the organ of theconscious; it is here subjected to our power of reasoning. When the objective mind hasbeen satisfied that the thought is true it is sent to the Solar Plexus, or the brain of thesubjective mind, to be made into our flesh, to be brought forth into the world as reality. Itis then no longer susceptible to any argument whatever. The subconscious mind cannotargue; it only acts. It accepts the conclusions of the objective mind as final.5. The Solar Plexus has been likened to the sum of the body, because it is a central point ofdistribution for the energy which the body is constantly generating. This energy is veryreal energy, and this sun is a very real sun, and the energy is being distributed by veryreal nerves to all parts of the body, and is thrown off in an atmosphere which envelopesthe body.6. If this radiation is sufficiently strong the person is called magnetic; he is said to be filledwith personal magnetism. Such a person may wield an immense power for good. Hispresence alone will often bring comfort to the troubled minds with which he comes incontact.7. When the Solar Plexus is in active operation and is radiating life, energy and vitality toevery part of the body, and to every one whom he meets, the sensations are pleasant, thebody is filled with health and all with whom he comes in contact experience a pleasantsensation.268. If there is any interruption of this radiation the sensations are unpleasant, the flow of lifeand energy to some part of the body is stopped, and this is the cause of every ill to thehuman race, physical, mental or environmental.9. Physical because the sun of the body is no longer generating sufficient energy to vitalizesome part of the body; mental because the conscious mind is dependent upon thesubconscious mind for the vitality necessary to support its thought, and environmental,because the connection between the subconscious mind and the Universal mind, isbeing interrupted.10. The Solar Plexus is the point at which the part meets with the whole, where the finitebecomes Infinite, where the Uncreate becomes create, the Universal becomesindividualized, the Invisible becomes visible. It is the point at which life appears andthere is no limit to the amount of life an individual may generate from this Solar centre.11. This centre of energy is Omnipotent because it is the point of contact with all life and allintelligence. It can therefore accomplish whatever it is directed to accomplish, andherein lies the power of the conscious mind; the subconscious can and will carry outsuch plans and ideas as may be suggested to it by the conscious mind.12. Conscious thought, then, is master of this sun centre from which the life and energy ofthe entire body flows and the quality of the thought which we entertain determines thequality of the thought which this sun will radiate, and the character of the thought whichour conscious mind entertains will determine the character of the thought which this sunwill radiate, and the nature of the thought which our conscious mind entertains willdetermine the nature of thought which this sun will radiate, and consequently willdetermine the nature of the experience which will result.13. It is evident, therefore, that all we have to do is let our light shine; the more energy wecan radiate, the more rapidly shall we be enabled to transmute undesirable conditions intosources of pleasure and profit. The important question, then, is how to let this light shine;how to generate this energy.14. Non-resistant thought expands the Solar Plexus; resistant thought contracts it. Pleasantthought expands it; unpleasant thought contracts it. Thoughts of courage, power,confidence and hope all produce a corresponding state, but the one arch enemy of theSolar Plexus which must be absolutely destroyed before there is any possibility of lettingany light shine is fear. This enemy must be completely destroyed; he must be eliminated;he must be expelled forever; he is the cloud which hides the sun; which causes aperpetual gloom.15. It is this personal devil which makes men fear the past, the present and the future; fearthemselves, their friends and their enemies; fear everything and everybody.27When fear is effectually and completely destroyed, your light will shine, the clouds willdisperse and you will have found the source of power, energy and life.16. When you find that you are really one with the Infinite power, and when you canconsciously realize this power by a practical demonstration of your ability to overcome anyadverse condition by the power of your thought, you will havenothing to fear; fear will have been destroyed and you will have come intopossession of your birthright.17. It is our attitude of mind toward life which determines the experiences with which we areto meet; if we expect nothing, we shall have nothing; if we demand much, we shallreceive the greater portion. The world is harsh only as we fail to assert ourselves. Thecriticism of the world is bitter only to those who cannot compel room for their ideas. It isfear of this criticism that causes many ideas to fail to see the light of day.18. But the man who knows that he has a Solar Plexus will not fear criticism or anythingelse; he will be too busy radiating courage, confidence, and power; he will anticipatesuccess by his mental attitude; he will pound barriers to pieces, and leap over the chasmof doubt and hesitation which fear places in his path.19. A knowledge of our ability to consciously radiate health, strength and harmony will bringus into a realization that there is nothing to fear because we are in touch with InfiniteStrength.20. This knowledge can be gained only by making practical application of thisinformation. We learn by doing; through practice the athlete comes powerful.21. As the following statement is of considerable importance, I will put it in several ways, sothat you cannot fail to get the full significance of it. If you are religiously inclined, Iwould say, you can let your light shine. If your mind has a bias toward physical science, Iwould say you can wake the Solar Plexus; or, if you prefer the strictly scientificinterpretation, I will say that you can impress your subconscious mind.22. I have already told you what the result of this impression will be. It is the method inwhich you are now interested. You have already learned that the subconscious isintelligent and that it is creative, and responsive to the will of the conscious mind. What,then, is the most natural way of making the desired impression? Mentally concentrate onthe object of your desire; when you are concentrating you are impressing thesubconscious.23. This is not the only way, but it is a simple and effective way, and the most direct way,and consequently the way in which the best results are secured. It is the method whichis producing such extraordinary results that many think that miracles are beingaccomplished.2824. It is the method by which every great inventor, every great financier, every greatstatesman has been enabled to convert the subtle and invisible force of desire, faith andconfidence into actual, tangible, concrete facts in the objective world.25. The subconscious mind is a part of the Universal mind. The Universal is the creativeprinciple of the Universe, a part must be the same in kind and quality as the whole. Thismeans that this creative power is absolutely unlimited; it is not bound by precedent ofany kind, and consequently has no prior existing pattern by which to apply itsconstructive principle.26. We have found that the subconscious mind is responsive to our conscious will, whichmeans that the unlimited creative power of the Universal Mind is within control of theconscious mind of the individual.27. When making a practical application of this principle, in accordance with theexercises given in the subsequent lessons, it is well to remember that it is notnecessary to outline the method by which the subconscious will produce the resultsyou desire. The finite can not inform the Infinite. You are simply to say what youdesire, not how you are to obtain it.28. You are the channel by which the undifferentiated is being differentiated, and thisdifferentiation is being accomplished by appropriation. It only requires recognition to setcauses in motion which will bring about results in accordance with your desire, and thisis accomplished because the Universal can act only through the individual, and theindividual can act only through the Universal; they are one.29. For your exercise this week, I will ask you to go one step further. I want you to not onlybe perfectly still, and inhibit all thought as far as possible, but relax, let go, let themuscles take their normal condition; this will remove all pressure from the nerves, andeliminate that tension which so frequently produces physical exhaustion.30. Physical relaxation is a voluntary exercise of the will and the exercise will be found tobe of great value, as it enables the blood to circulate freely to and from the brain andbody.31. Tensions leads to mental unrest and abnormal mental activity of the mind; it producesworry, care, fear and anxiety. Relaxation is therefore an absolute necessity in order toallow the mental faculties to exercise the greatest freedom.32. Make this exercise as thorough and complete as possible, mentally determine that youwill relax every muscle and nerve, until you feel quiet and restful and at peace withyourself and the world.33. The Solar Plexus will then be ready to function and you will be surprised at the result.29PART THREE Study Questions with Answers21. What system of nerves is the organ of the Conscious Mind? The Cerebro-spinal. 22. What systemof nerves is the organ of the subconscious mind? The sympathetic. 23. What is the central point ofdistribution for energy which the body is constantly generating? The solar plexus.24. How may this distribution be interrupted? By resistant, critical, discordant thoughts, butespecially fear.25. What is the result of such interruption? Every ill with which the human race is afflicted.26. How may this energy be controlled and directed? By conscious thought. 27. How may fear becompletely eliminated? By an understanding and recognition of the true source of all power.28. What determines the experiences with which we meet in life? Our predominant mental attitude.29. How may we awake the solar plexus? Mentally concentrate upon the condition which we desire tosee manifested in our lives.30. What is the creative principle of the Universe? The Universal Mind. 30INTRODUCTION - PART FOUREnclosed herewith I hand you Part Four. This part will show you why what you think, or do,or feel, is an indication of what you are.Thought is energy and energy is power, and it is because all the religions, sciences andphilosophies with which the world has heretofore been familiar have been based upon themanifestation of this energy instead of the energy itself, that the world has been limited toeffects, while causes have been ignored or misunderstood.For this reason we have God and the Devil in religion, positive and negative inscience, and good and bad in philosophy.The master key reverses the process; it is interested only in cause, and the letters receivedfrom students tell a marvelous story; they indicate conclusively that students are finding thecause whereby they may secure for themselves health, harmony, abundance, and whatever elsemay be necessary for their welfare and happiness.Life is expressive and it is our business to express ourselves harmoniously andconstructively. Sorrow, misery, unhappiness, disease and poverty are not necessities and we areconstantly eliminating them.But this process of eliminating consists in rising above and beyond limitation of any kind.He who has strengthened and purified his thought need not concern himself about microbes, andhe who has come into an understanding of the law of abundance will go at once to the source ofsupply. It is thus that fate, fortune, and destiny will be controlled as readily as a captain controlshis ship, or an engineer, his train.31PART FOUR1. The "I" of you is not the physical body; that is simply an instrument which the "I" uses tocarry out its purposes; the "I" cannot be the Mind, for the mind is simply another instrumentwhich the "I" uses with which to think, reason, and plan.2. The "I" must be something which controls and directs both the body and the mind;something which determines what they shall do and how they shall act. When youcome into a realization of the true nature of this "I", you will enjoy a sense of powerwhich you have never before known.3. Your personality is made up of countless individual characteristics, peculiarities, habits,and traits of character; these are the result of your former method of thinking, but theyhave nothing to do with the real "I."4. When you say "I think" the "I" tells the mind what it shall think; when you say "I go" the"I" tells the physical body where it shall go; the real nature of this "I" is spiritual, and isthe source of the real power which comes to men and women when they come into arealization of their true nature.5. The greatest and most marvelous power which this "I" has been given is the power tothink, but few people know how to think constructively, or correctly, consequentlythey achieve only indifferent results. Most people allow their thoughts to dwell onselfish purposes, the inevitable result of an infantile mind. When a mind becomesmature, it understands that the germ of defeat is in every selfish thought.6. The trained mind knows that every transaction must benefit every person who is in anyway connected with the transaction, and any attempt to profit by the weakness,ignorance or necessity of another will inevitably operate to his disadvantage.7. This is because the individual is a part of the Universal. A part cannot antagonize anyother part, but, on the contrary, the welfare of each part depends upon a recognition ofthe interest of the whole.8. Those who recognize this principle have a great advantage in the affairs of life. Theydo not wear themselves out. They can eliminate vagrant thoughts with facility. Theycan readily concentrate to the highest possible degree on any subject. They do notwaste time or money upon objects which can be of no possible benefit to them.9. If you cannot do these things it is because you have thus far not made the necessaryeffort. Now is the time to make the effort. The result will be exactly in proportion to theeffort expended. One of the strongest affirmations which you32can use for the purpose of strengthening the will and realizing your power toaccomplish, is, "I can be what I will to be."10. Every time you repeat it realize who and what this "I" is; try to come into a thoroughunderstanding of the true nature of the "I"; if you do, you will become invincible; thatis, provided that your objects and purposes are constructive and are therefore inharmony with the creative principle of the Universe.11. If you make use of this affirmation, use it continuously, night and morning, and as oftenduring the day as you think of it, and continue to do so until it becomes a part of you;form the habit.12. Unless you do this, you had better not start at all, because modern psychology tells usthat when we start something and do not complete it, or make a resolution and do notkeep it, we are forming the habit of failure; absolute, ignominious failure. If you do notintend to do a thing, do not start; if you do start, see it through even if the heavens fall; ifyou make up your mind to do something, do it; let nothing, no one, interfere; the "I" inyou has determined, the thing is settled; the die is cast, there is no longer any argument.13. If you carry out this idea, beginning with small things which you know you can controland gradually increase the effort, but never under any circumstances allowing your "I"to be overruled, you will find that you can eventually control yourself, and many menand women have found to their sorrow that it is easier to control a kingdom that tocontrol themselves.14. But when you have learned to control yourself you will have found the "World Within"which controls the world without; you will have become irresistible; men and things willrespond to your every wish without any apparent effort on your part.15. This is not so strange or impossible as it may appear when you remember that the"World Within" is controlled by the "I" and that this "I" is a part or one with the Infinite"I" which is the Universal Energy or Spirit, usually called God.16. This is not a mere statement or theory made for the purpose of confirming orestablishing an idea, but it is a fact which has been accepted by the best religiousthought as well as the best scientific thought.17. Herbert Spender said: "Amid all the mysteries by which we are surrounded, nothingis more certain than that we are ever in the presence of an Infinite and EternalEnergy from which all things proceed."18. Lyman Abbott, in an address delivered before the Alumni of Bangor TheologicalSeminary, said: "We are coming to think of God as dwelling in man rather than asoperating on men from without."3319. Science goes a little way in its search and stops. Science finds the everpresent EternalEnergy, but Religion finds the Power behind this energy and locates it within man. Butthis is by no means a new discovery; the Bible says exactly the same thing, and thelanguage is just as plain and convincing: "Know ye not that ye are the temple of theliving God?" Here, then, is the secret of the wonderful creative power of the "WorldWithin."20. Here is the secret of power, of mastery. To overcome does not mean to go without things.Self-denial is not success. We cannot give unless we get; we cannot be helpful unless we arestrong. The Infinite is not a bankrupt and we who are therepresentatives of Infinite power should not be bankrupts either, and if we wish to be ofservice to others we must have power and more power, but to get it we must give it; wemust be of service.21. The more we give the more we shall get; we must become a channel whereby theUniversal can express activity. The Universal is constantly seeking to express itself, tobe of service, and it seeks the channel whereby it can find the greatest activity, where itcan do the most good, where it can be of greatest service to mankind.22. The Universal cannot express through you as long as you are busy with your plans,your own purposes; quiet the senses, seek inspiration, focus the mental activity on thewithin, dwell in the consciousness of your unity with Omnipotence. "Still water runsdeep;" contemplate the multitudinous opportunities to which you have spiritual accessby the Omnipresence of power.23. Visualize the events, circumstances and conditions which these spiritual connectionsmay assist in manifesting. Realize the fact that the essence and soul of all things isspiritual and that the spiritual is the real, because it is the life of all there is; when thespirit is gone, the life is gone; it is dead; it has ceased to exist.24. These mental activities pertain to the world within, to the world of cause; andconditions and circumstances which result are the effect. It is thus that you becomea creator. This is important work, and the higher, loftier, grander and more nobleideals which you can conceive, the more important the work will become.25. Over-work or over-play or over-bodily activity of any kind produces conditions of mentalapathy and stagnation which makes it impossible to do the more important work whichresults in a realization of conscious power. We should, therefore, seek the Silencefrequently. Power comes through repose; it is in the Silence that we can be still, andwhen we are still, we can think, and thought is the secret of all attainment.3426. Thought is a mode of motion and is carried by the law of vibration the same as light orelectricity. It is given vitality by the emotions through the law of love; it takes form andexpression by the law of growth; it is a product of the spiritual “I”, hence its Divine,spiritual, and creative nature.27. From this it is evident that in order to express power, abundance or any otherconstructive purpose, the emotions must be called upon to give feeling to the thought sothat it will take form. How may this purpose be accomplished? This is the vital point;how may we develop the faith, the courage, the feeling, which will result inaccomplishment?28. The reply is, by exercise; mental strength is secured in exactly the same way that physicalstrength is secured, by exercise. We think something, perhaps with difficulty the firsttime; we think the same thing again, and it becomes easier this time; we think it again andagain; it then becomes a mental habit. We continue to think the same thing; finally itbecomes automatic; we can no longer help thinking this thing; we are now positive ofwhat we think; there is no longer any doubt about it. We are sure; we know.29. Last week I asked you to relax, to let go physically. This week, I am going to ask you tolet go mentally. If you practiced the exercise given you last week fifteen or twentyminutes a day in accordance with the instructions, you can no doubt relax physically; andanyone who cannot consciously do this quickly and completely is not a master ofhimself. He has not obtained freedom; he is still a slave to conditions. But I shall assumethat you have mastered the exercise and are ready to take the next step, which is mentalfreedom.30. This week, after taking your usual position, remove all tension by completely relaxing,then mentally let go of all adverse conditions, such as hatred, anger, worry, jealousy,envy, sorrow, trouble or disappointment of any kind.31. You may say that you cannot "let go" of these things, but you can; you can do so bymentally determining to do so, by voluntary intention and persistence.32. The reason that some cannot do this is because they allow themselves to be controlledby the emotions instead of by their intellect. But those who will be guided by theintellect will gain the victory. You will not succeed the first time you try, but practicemakes perfect, in this as in everything else, and you must succeed in dismissing,eliminating and completely destroying these negative and destructive thoughts; becausethey are the seed which is constantly germinating into discordant conditions of everyconceivable kind and description."There is nothing truer than that the quality of thought which we entertain correlates certainexternals in the outside world. This is the Law from which there is no escape. And it is this Law,this correlative of the thought with its object, that from time immemorial has led the people tobelieve in special providence." - Wilmans35PART FOUR Study Questions with Answers31. What is thought? Thought is spiritual energy.32. How is it carried? By the law of vibration.33. How is it given vitality? By the law of love.34. How does it take form? By the law of growth.35. What is the secret of its creative power? It is a spiritual activity. 36. How may we develop thefaith, courage, and enthusiasm which will result in accomplishment? By a recognition of our spiritualnature.37. What is the secret of Power? Service.38. Why is this so? Because we get what we give.39. What is the Silence? A physical stillness.40. Of what value is it? It is the first step to self-control, self-mastery. 36INTRODUCTION - PART FIVEEnclosed herewith you will find Part Five. After studying this part carefully, you will seethat every conceivable force or object or fact is the result of mind in action. Mind in action isthought, and thought is creative. Men are thinking now as they never thought before. Therefore,this is a creative age, and the world is awarding its richest prizes to the thinkers.Matter is powerless, passive, inert. Mind is force, energy, power. Mind shapes and controlsmatter. Every form which matter takes is but the expression of some pre-existing thought.But thought works no magic transformations; it obeys natural laws; it sets in motion naturalforces; it releases natural energies; it manifests in your conduct and actions, and these in turnreact upon your friends and acquaintances, and eventually upon the whole of your environment.You can originate thought, and, since thoughts are creative, you can create foryourself the things you desire.37PART FIVE1. At least ninety per cent of our mental life is subconscious, so that those who fail to makeuse of this mental power live within very narrow limits.2. The subconscious can and will solve any problem for us if we know how to direct it. Thesubconscious processes are always at work; the only question is, are we to be simplypassive recipients of this activity, or are we to consciously direct the work? Shall wehave a vision of the destination to be reached, the dangers to be avoided, or shall wesimply drift?3. We have found that mind pervades every part of the physical body and is always capableof being directed or impressed by authority coming from the objective or the moredominant portion of the mind.4. The mind, which pervades the body, is largely the result of heredity, which, in turn, issimply the result of all the environments of all past generations on the responsive andever-moving life forces. An understanding of this fact will enable us to use ourauthority when we find some undesirable trait of character manifesting.5. We can consciously use all the desirable characteristics with which we have beenprovided and we can repress and refuse to allow the undesirable ones to manifest.6. Again, this mind which pervades our physical body is not only the result ofhereditary7. tendencies, but is the result of home, business and social environment, where countlessthousands of impressions, ideas, prejudices and similar thoughts have been received.Much of this has been received from others, the result of opinions, suggestions orstatements; much of it is the result of our own thinking, but nearly all of it has beenaccepted with little or no examination or consideration.8. The idea seemed plausible, the conscious received it, passed it on to the subconscious,where it was taken up by the Sympathetic System and passed on to be built into ourphysical body. "The word has become flesh."9. This, then, is the way we are consistently creating and recreating ourselves; we are todaythe result of our past thinking, and we shall be what we are thinking today, the Law ofAttraction is bringing to us, not the things we should like, or the things we wish for, or thethings some one else has, but it brings us "our own," the things which we have created by ourthought processes, whether consciously or unconsciously. Unfortunately, many of us arecreating these things unconsciously.10. If either of us were building a home for ourselves, how careful we would be in regard tothe plans; how we should study every detail; how we should watch the material and selectonly the best of everything; and yet how careless we are when38it comes to building our Mental Home, which is infinitely more important than anyphysical home, as everything which can possibly enter into our lives depends upon thecharacter of the material which enters into the construction of our Mental Home.11. What is the character of this material? We have seen that it is the result of theimpressions which we have accumulated in the past and stored away in our subconsciousMentality. If these impressions have been of fear, of worry, of care, of anxiety; if theyhave been despondent, negative, doubtful, then the texture of the material which we areweaving today will be of the same negative material. Instead of being of any value, itwill be mildewed and rotten and will bring us only more toil and care and anxiety. Weshall be forever busy trying to patch it up and make it appear at least genteel.12. But if we have stored away nothing but courageous thought, if we have been optimistic,positive, and have immediately thrown any kind of negative thought on the scrap pile,have refused to have anything to do with it, have refused to associate with it or becomeidentified with it in any way, what then is the result? Our mental material is now of thebest kind; we can weave any kind of material we want; we can use any color we wish;we know that the texture is firm, that the material is solid, that it will not fade, and wehave no fear, no anxiety concerning the future; there is nothing to cover, there are nopatches to hide.13. These are psychological facts; there is no theory or guess work about these thinkingprocesses; there is nothing secret about them; in fact, they are so plain that every onecan understand them. The thing to do is to have a mental house cleaning, and to havethis house-cleaning every day, and keep the house clean. Mental, moral and physicalcleanliness are absolutely indispensable if we are to make progress of any kind.14. When this mental house-cleaning process has been completed, the material which is leftwill be suitable for the making of the kind of ideals or mental images which we desire torealize.15. There is a fine estate awaiting a claimant. Its broad acres, with abundant crops, runningwater and fine timber, stretch away as far as the eye can see. There is a mansion,spacious and cheerful, with rare pictures, a well-stocked library, rich hangings, andevery comfort and luxury. All the heir has to do is to assert his heirship, takepossession, and use the property. He must use it; he must not let it decay; for use is thecondition on which he holds it. To neglect it is to lose possession.16. In the domain of mind and spirit, in the domain of practical power, such an estate isyours. You are the heir! You can assert your heirship and possess, and use this richinheritance. Power over circumstances is one of its fruits, health, harmony and prosperityare assets upon its balance sheet. It offers you poise and peace. It39costs you only the labor of studying and harvesting its great resources. It demands nosacrifice, except the loss of your limitations, your servitudes, your weakness. It clothes youwith self-honor, and puts a scepter in your hands.17. To gain this estate, three processes are necessary: You must earnestly desire it. Youmust assert your claim. You must take possession.18. You admit that those are not burdensome conditions.19. You are familiar with the subject of heredity. Darwin, Huxley, Haeckel, and otherphysical scientists have piled evidence mountain high that heredity is a law attendingprogressive creation. It is progressive heredity which gives man his erect attitude, hispower of motion, the organs of digestions, blood circulation, nerve force, muscular force,bone structure and a host of other faculties on the physical side. There are even moreimpressive facts concerning heredity of mind force. All these constitute what may becalled your human heredity.20. But there is a heredity which the physical scientists have not compassed. It liesbeneath and antecedent to all their researches. At a point where they throw up theirhands in despair, saying they cannot account for what they see, this divine heredity isfound in full sway.21. It is the benignant force which decrees primal creation. It thrills down from theDivine, direct into every created being. It originates life, which the physical scientisthas not done, nor ever can do. It stands out among all forces supreme,unapproachable. No human heredity can approach it. No human heredity measures upto it.22. This Infinite Life flows through you; is you. Its doorways are but the faculties whichcomprise your consciousness. To keep open these doors is the Secret of Power. Is itnot worth while to make the effort?23. The great fact is, that the source of all life and all power is from within. Persons,circumstances and events may suggest need and opportunities, but the insight, strengthand power to answer these needs will be found within.24. Avoid counterfeits. Build firm foundations for your consciousness upon forces whichflow direct from the Infinite source, the Universal Mind of which you are the imageand likeness.25. Those we have come into possession of this inheritance are never quite the same again.They have come into possession of a sense of power hitherto undreamed of. They cannever again be timid, weak, vacillating, or fearful. They are indissolubly connected withOmnipotence. Something in them has been aroused; they have suddenly discovered thatthey possess a tremendous latent ability of which they were heretofore entirelyunconscious.4026. This power is from within, but we cannot receive it unless we give it. Use is the conditionupon which we hold this inheritance. We are each of us but the channel through whichthe Omnipotent power is being differentiated into form; unless we give, the channel isobstructed and we can receive no more. This is true on every plane of existence and inevery field of endeavor and all walks of life. The more we give, the more we get. Theathlete who wishes to get strong must make use of the strength he has, and the more hegives the more he will get. The financier who wishes to make money must make use ofthe money he has, for only by using it can he get more.27. The merchant who does not keep his goods going out will soon have none coming in; thecorporation which fails to give efficient service will soon lack customers; the attorneywho fails to get results will soon lack clients, and so it goes everywhere; power iscontingent upon a proper use of the power already in our possession; what is true in everyfield of endeavor, every experience in life, is true of the power from which every otherpower known among men is begotten -- spiritual power. Take away the spirit and what isleft? Nothing.28. If then the spirit is all there is, upon the recognition of this fact must depend the abilityto demonstrate all power, whether physical, mental or spiritual.29. All possession is the result of the accumulative attitude of mind, or the moneyconsciousness; this is the magic wand which will enable you to receive the idea, and itwill formulate plans for you to execute, and you will find as much pleasure in theexecution as in the satisfaction of attainment and achievement.30. Now, go to your room, take the same seat, the same position as heretofore, and mentallyselect a place which has pleasant associations. Make a complete mental picture of it, seethe buildings, the grounds, the trees, friends, associations, everything complete. At first,you will find yourself thinking of everything under the sun, except the ideal upon whichyou desire to concentrate. But do not let that discourage you. Persistence will win, butpersistence requires that you practice these exercises every day without fail.41PART FIVE Study Questions with Answers41. What proportion of our mental life is subconscious? At least ninety per cent. 42. Isthis vast mental storehouse generally utilized? No.43. Why not? Few understand or appreciate the fact that it is an activity which they mayconsciously direct.44. Where has the conscious mind received its governing tendencies? From heredity - -which means that it is the result of all the environments of all past generations. 45. What is thelaw of attraction bringing to us? Our "Own."46. What is our "Own"? What we inherently are, and is the result of our past thinking, bothconscious and subconscious.47. Of what is the material with which we construct our mental home composed? Thethoughts which we entertain.48. What is the Secret of Power? A recognition of the omnipresence of omnipotence. 49.Where does it originate? All life and all power is from within. 50. Upon what is thepossession of power contingent? Upon a proper use of the power already in our possession.42INTRODUCTION - PART SIXIt is my privilege to enclose Part Six. This part will give you an excellent understanding ofthe most wonderful piece of mechanism which has ever been created. A mechanism whereby youmay create for yourself Health, Strength, Success, Prosperity or any other condition which youdesire. Necessities are demands, and demands create action, and actions bring about results. Theprocess of evolution is constantly building our tomorrows out of our todays. Individualdevelopment, like Universal development, must be gradual with an ever increasing capacity andvolume.The knowledge that if we infringe upon the rights of others, we become moral thorns andfind ourselves entangled at every turn of the road, should be an indication that success iscontingent upon the highest moral ideal, which is "The greatest good to the greatest number."Aspiration, desire and harmonious relations constantly and persistently maintained willaccomplish results. The greatest hindrance is erroneous and fixed ideas. To be in tune witheternal truth we must possess poise and harmony within. In order to receive intelligence thereceiver must be in tune with the transmitter. Thought is a product of Mind and Mind is creative,but this does not mean that the Universal will change its modus operandi to suit us or our ideas,but it does mean that we can come into harmonious relationship with the Universal, and when wehave accomplished this we may ask anything to which we are entitled, and the way will be madeplain.43PART SIX1. The Universal Mind is so wonderful that it is difficult to understand its utilitarian powersand possibilities and its unlimited producing effects.2. We have found that this Mind is not only all intelligence but all substance. How, then, isit to be differentiated in form? How are we to secure the effect which we desire?3. Ask any electrician what the effect of electricity will be and he will reply that "Electricityis a form of motion and its effect will depend upon the mechanism to which it isattached." Upon this mechanism will depend whether we shall have heat, light, power,music or any of the other marvelous demonstration of power to whichthis vital energyhas been harnessed.4. What effect can be produced by thought? The reply is that thought is mind in motion(just as wind is air in motion), and its effect will depend entirely on the "mechanismto which it is attached."5. Here, then, is the secret of all mental power; it depends entirely on the mechanism whichwe attach.6. What is this mechanism? You know something of the mechanism which has beeninvented by Edison, Bell, Marconi and other electrical wizards, by which place andspace and time have become only figures of speech, but did you ever stop to think thatthe mechanism which has been given you for transforming the Universal, OmnipresentPotential Power was invented by a greater inventor than Edison?7. We are accustomed to examining the mechanism of the implements which we use fortilling the soil, and we try to get an understanding of the mechanism of the automobilewhich we drive, but most of us are content to remain in absolute ignorance of thegreatest piece of mechanism which as ever come into existence, the brain of man.8. Let us examine the wonders of this mechanism; perhaps we shall thereby get a betterunderstanding of the various effects of which it is the cause.9. In the first place, there is the great mental world in which we live and move and have ourbeing; this world is omnipotent, omniscient and omnipresent; it will respond to ourdesire in direct ratio to our purpose and faith; the purpose must be in accordance withthe law of our being, that is, it must be creative or constructive; our faith must be strongenough to generate a current of sufficient strength to bring our purpose intomanifestation. "As thy faith is, so be it unto thee," bears the stamp of scientific test.4410. The effects which are produced in the world without are the result of the action andreaction of the individual upon the universal; that is the process which we call thinking;the brain is the organ through which this process is accomplished; think of the wonder ofit all! Do you love music, flowers, literature, or are you inspired by the thought of ancientor modern genius? Remember, every beauty to which you respond must have itscorresponding outline in your brain before you can appreciate it.11. There is not a single virtue or principle in the storehouse of nature which the brain cannotexpress. The brain is an embryonic world, ready to develop at any time as necessity mayarise. If you can comprehend that this is a scientific truth and one of the wonderful laws ofnature, it will be easier for you to get an understanding of the mechanism by which theseextraordinary results are being accomplished.12. The nervous system has been compared to an electric circuit with its battery of cells inwhich force is originated, and its white matter to insulated wires by which the current isconveyed; it is through these channels that every impulse or desire is carried through themechanism.13. The spinal cord is the great motor and sensory pathway by which messages areconveyed to and from the brain; then, there is the blood supply plunging through theveins and arteries, renewing our energy and strength, the perfectly arranged structureupon which the entire physical body rests, and, finally, the delicate and beautiful skin,clothing the entire mechanism is a mantle of beauty.14. This then is the "Temple of the living God" and the individual "I" is given control andupon his understanding of the mechanism which is within his control will the resultdepend.15. Every thought sets the brain cells in action; at first the substance upon which thethought is directed fails to respond, but if the thought is sufficiently refined andconcentrated, the substance finally yields and expresses perfectly.16. This influence of the mind can be exerted upon any part of the body, causing theelimination of any undesirable effect.17. A perfect conception and understanding of the laws governing in the mental world cannotfail to be of inestimable value in the transaction of business, as it develops the power ofdiscernment and gives a clearer understanding and appreciation of facts.18. The man who looks within instead of without cannot fail to make use of the mightyforces which will eventually determine his course in life and so bring him into vibrationwith all that is best, strongest and most desirable.4519. Attention or concentration is probably; the most important essential in the developmentof mind culture. The possibilities of attention when properly directed are so startling thatthey would hardly appear credible to the uninitiated. The cultivation of attention is thedistinguishing characteristic of every successful man or woman, and is the very highestpersonal accomplishment which can be acquired.20. The power of attention can be more readily understood by comparing it with amagnifying glass in which the rays of sunlight are focused; they possess no particularstrength as long as the glass is moved about and the rays directed from one place toanother; but let the glass be held perfectly still and let the rays be focused on one spotfor any length of time, the effect will become immediately apparent.21. So with the power of thought; let power be dissipated by scattering the thought from oneobject to another, and no result is apparent; but focus this power through attention orconcentration on any single purpose for any length of time and nothing becomesimpossible.22. A very simple remedy for a very complex situation, some will say. All right, try it, youwho have had no experience in concentrating the thought on a definite purpose orobject. Choose any single object and concentrate your attention on it for a definitepurpose for even ten minutes; you cannot do it; the mind will wander a dozen timesand it will be necessary to bring it back to the original purpose, and each time theeffect will have been lost and at the end of the ten minutes nothing will have beengained, because you have not been able to hold your thought steadily to the purpose.23. It is, however, through attention that you will finally be able to overcome obstacles ofany kind that appear in your path onward and upward, and the only way to acquire thiswonderful power is by practice -- practice makes perfect, in this as in anything else.24. In order to cultivate the power of attention, bring a photograph with you to the same seatin the same room in the same position as heretofore. Examine it closely at least ten minutes,note the expression of the eyes, the form of the features, the clothing, the way the hair isarranged; in fact, note every detail shown on the photograph carefully. Now cover it andclose your eyes and try to see it mentally; if you can see every detail perfectly and can forma good mental image of the photograph, you are to be congratulated; if not, repeat theprocess until you can.25. This step is simply for the purpose of preparing the soil; next week we shall be readyto sow the seed.26. It is by such exercises as these that you will finally be able to control your mentalmoods, your attitude, your consciousness.4627. Great financiers are learning to withdraw from the multitude more and more, that theymay have more time for planning, thinking and generating the right mental moods.28. Successful businessmen are constantly demonstrating the fact that it pays to keep intouch with the thought of other successful business men.29. A single idea may be worth millions of dollars, and these ideas can only come to thosewho are receptive, who are prepared to receive them, who are in successful frame of mind.30. Men are learning to place themselves in harmony with the Universal Mind; they arelearning the unity of all things; they are learning the basic methods and principles ofthinking, and this is changing conditions and multiplying results.31. They are finding that circumstances and environment follow the trend of mental andspiritual progress; they find that growth follows knowledge; action follows inspiration;opportunity follows perception; always the spiritual first, then the transformation into theinfinite and illimitable possibilities of achievement.32. As the individual is but the channel for the differentiation of the Universal, thesepossibilities are necessarily inexhaustible.33. Thought is the process by which we may absorb the Spirit of Power, and hold the resultin our inner consciousness until it becomes a part of our ordinary consciousness. Themethod of accomplishing this result by the persistent practice of a few fundamentalprinciples, as explained in this System, is the master-key which unlocks the storehouseof Universal Truth.34. The two great sources of human suffering at present are bodily disease and mentalanxiety. These may be readily traced to the infringement of some Natural Law. This is, nodoubt, owing to the fact that so far knowledge has largely remainedpartial, but the clouds of darkness which have accumulated through long ages arebeginning to roll away and with them many of the miseries that attend imperfectinformation."That a man can change himself, improve himself, re-create himself, control hisenvironment, and master his own destiny is the conclusion of every mind who is wide awaketo the power of right thought in constructive action." - Larson47PART SIX Study Questions with Answers51. What are some of the effects which can be produced by electricity? Heat, light, power,music.52. Upon what do these various effects depend? Upon the mechanism to whichelectricity is attached.53. What is the result of the action and interaction of the individual mind upon theUniversal? The conditions and experiences with which we meet.54. How may these conditions be changed? By changing the mechanism by which theUniversal is differentiated in form.55. What is this mechanism? The brain.56. How may it be changed? By the process we call thinking. Thoughts produce brain cells,and these cells respond to the corresponding thought in the Universal. 57. Of what value isthe power of concentration? It is the very highest personal accomplishment which can beacquired, and the distinguishing characteristic of every successful man or woman.58. How may it be acquired? By faithfully practicing the exercises in this System. 59. Why isthis so important? Because it will enable us to control our thoughts, and since thoughts arecauses conditions must be effects; if we can control the cause we can also control the effect.60. What is changing conditions and multiplying results in the objective world? Men arelearning the basic methods of constructive thinking.48INTRODUCTION - PART SEVENThrough all the ages man has believed in an invisible power, through which and by which all things havebeen created and are continually being re-created. We may personalize this power and call it God, or wemay think of it as the essence or spirit, which permeates all things, but in either case the effect is thesame. So far as the individual is concerned, the objective, the physical, the visible, is the personal, thatwhich can be cognized by the senses. It consists of body, brain and nerves. The subjective is the spiritual,the invisible, the impersonal.The personal is conscious because it is a personal entity. The impersonal, being the same in kind andquality as all other Being, is not conscious of itself and has therefore been termed the subconscious. Thepersonal, or conscious, has the power of will and choice, and can therefore exercise discrimination in theselection of methods whereby to bring about the solution of difficulties. The impersonal, or spiritual,being a part or one with the source, and origin of all power, can necessarily exercise no such choice, but,on the contrary, it has Infinite resources at its command. It can and does bring about results by methodsconcerning which the human or individual mind can have no possible conception.You will therefore see that it is your privilege to depend upon the human will with all its limitations andmisconceptions, or you may utilize the potentialities of Infinity by making use of the subconscious mind.Here, then, is the scientific explanation of the wonderful power which has been put within your control,if you but understand, appreciate and recognize it.One method of consciously utilizing this omnipotent power is outlined in Part Seven. 49PART SEVEN1. Visualization is the process of making mental images, and the image is the mold ormodel which will serve as a pattern from which your future will emerge.2. Make the pattern clear and make it beautiful; do not be afraid; make it grand; rememberthat no limitation can be placed upon you by any one but yourself; you are not limited asto cost or material; draw on the Infinite for your supply, construct it in your imagination;it will have to be there before it will ever appear anywhere else.3. Make the image clear and clean-cut, hold it firmly in the mind and you will gradually andconstantly bring the thing nearer to you. You can be what "you will to be."4. This is another psychological fact which is well known, but unfortunately, reading about itwill not bring about any result which you may have in mind; it will not even help you to formthe mental image, much less bring it into manifestation.Work is necessary - labor, hard mental labor, the kind of effort which so few arewilling to put forth.5. The first step is idealization. It is likewise the most important step, because it is the planon which you are going to build. It must be solid; it must be permanent. The architect,when he plans a 30-story building, has every line and detail pictured in advance. Theengineer, when he spans a chasm, first ascertains the strength requirements of a millionseparate parts.6. They see the end before a single step is taken; so you are to picture in your mind what youwant; you are sowing the seed, but before sowing any seed you want to know what theharvest is to be. This is Idealization. If you are not sure, return to the chair daily until thepicture becomes plain; it will gradually unfold; first the general plan will be dim, but itwill take shape, the outline will take form, then the details, and you will graduallydevelop the power by which you will be enabled to formulate plans which will eventuallymaterialize in the objective world. You will come to know what the future holds for you.7. Then comes the process of visualization. You must see the picture more and morecomplete, see the detail, and, as the details begin to unfold the ways and means forbringing it into manifestation will develop. One thing will lead to another. Thought willlead to action, action will develop methods, methods will develop friends, and friendswill bring about circumstances, and, finally, the third step, or Materialization, will havebeen accomplished.8. We all recognize the Universe must have been thought into shape before it ever could havebecome a material fact. And if we are willing to follow along the lines of the Great Architectof the Universe, we shall find our thoughts taking form, just50as the universe took concrete form. It is the same mind operating through theindividual. There is no difference in kind or quality, the only difference is one ofdegree.9. The architect visualizes his building, he sees it as he wishes it to be. His thought becomesa plastic mold from which the building will eventually emerge, a high one or a low one, abeautiful one or a plain one, his vision takes form on paper and eventually the necessarymaterial is utilized and the building stands complete.10. The inventor visualizes his idea in exactly the same manner, for instance, Nikola Tesla,he with the giant intellect, one of the greatest inventors of all ages, the man who hasbrought forth the most amazing realities, always visualizes his inventions beforeattempting to work them out. He did not rush to embody them in form and then spend histime in correcting defects. Having first built up the idea in his imagination, he held itthere as a mental picture, to be reconstructed and improved by his thought. "In this way,"he writes in the Electrical Experimenter. "I am enabled to rapidly develop and perfect aconception without touching anything. When I have gone so far as to embody in theinvention every possible improvement I can think of, and see no fault anywhere, I putinto concrete, the product of my brain. Invariably my devise works as I conceived itshould; in twenty years there has not been a single exception."11. If you can conscientiously follow these directions, you will develop Faith, the kind ofFaith that is the "Substance of things hoped for, the evidence of things not seen"; you willdevelop confidence, the kind of confidence that leads to endurance and courage; you willdevelop the power of concentration which will enable you to exclude all thoughts exceptthe ones which are associated with your purpose.12. The law is that thought will manifest in form, and only one who knows how to be thedivine thinker of his own thoughts can ever take a Master's place and speak withauthority.13. Clearness and accuracy are obtained only by repeatedly having the image in mind. Eachrepeated action renders the image more clear and accurate than the preceding, and inproportion to the clearness and accuracy of the image will the outward manifestation be.You must build it firmly and securely in your mental world, the world within, before itcan take form in the world without, and you can build nothing of value, even in themental world unless you have the proper material. When you have the material you canbuild anything you wish, but make sure of your material. You cannot make broadclothfrom shoddy.14. This material will be brought out by millions of silent mental workers andfashioned into the form of the image which you have in mind.15. Think of it! You have over five million of these mental workers, ready and in activeuse; brain cells they are called. Besides this, there is another reserve force51of at least an equal number, ready to be called into action at the slightest need. Yourpower to think, then, is almost unlimited, and this means that your power to create thekind of material which is necessary to build for yourself any kind of environment whichyou desire is practically unlimited.16. In addition to these millions of mental workers, you have billions of mental workers inthe body, every one of which is endowed with sufficient intelligence to understand andact upon any message or suggestion given. These cells are all busy creating andrecreating the body, but, in addition to this, they are endowed with psychic activitywhereby they can attract to themselves the substance necessary for perfect development.17. They do this by the same law and in the same manner that every form of life attracts toitself the necessary material for growth. The oak, the rose, the lily, all require certainmaterial for their most perfect expression and they secure it by silent demand, the Lawof Attraction, the most certain way for you to secure what you require for your mostcomplete development.18. Make the Mental Image; make it clear, distinct, perfect; hold it firmly; the ways andmeans will develop; supply will follow the demand; you will be led to do the right thingat the right time and in the right way. Earnest Desire will bring about ConfidentExpectation, and this in turn must be reinforced by Firm Demand. These three cannotfail to bring about Attainment, because the Earnest Desire is the feeling, the ConfidentExpectation is the thought, and the Firm Demand is the will, and, as we have seen,feeling gives vitality to thought and the will holds it steadily until the law of Growthbrings it into manifestation.19. Is it not wonderful that man has such tremendous power within himself, suchtranscendental faculties concerning which he had no conception? Is it not strange thatwe have always been taught to look for strength and power "without?" We have beentaught to look everywhere but "within" and whenever this power manifested in our liveswe were told that it was something supernatural.20. There are many who have come to an understanding of this wonderful power, and whomake serious and conscientious efforts to realize health, power and other conditions, andseem to fail. They do not seem able to bring the Law into operation. The difficulty innearly every case is that they are dealing with externals. They want money, power,health and abundance, but they fail to realize that these are effects and can come onlywhen the cause is found.21. Those who will give no attention to the world without will seek only to ascertain thetruth, will look only for wisdom, will find that this wisdom will unfold and disclose thesource of all power, that it will manifest in thought and purpose which will create theexternal conditions desired. This truth will find expression in noble purpose andcourageous action.5222. Create ideals only, give no thought to external conditions, make the world withinbeautiful and opulent and the world without will express and manifest the conditionwhich you have within. You will come into a realization of your power to create idealsand these ideals will be projected into the world of effect.23. For instance, a man is in debt. He will be continually thinking about the debt,concentrating on it, and as thoughts are causes the result is that he not only fastens thedebt closer to him, but actually creates more debt. He is putting the great law ofAttraction into operation with the usual and inevitable result -- Loss leads to greater"Loss."24. What, then, is the correct principle? Concentrate on the things you want, not on thethings you do not want. Think of abundance; idealize the methods and plans for puttingthe Law of Abundance into operation. Visualize the condition which the Law ofAbundance creates; this will result in manifestation.25. If the law operates perfectly to bring about poverty, lack and every form of limitationfor those who are continually entertaining thoughts of lack and fear, it will operate withthe same certainty to bring about conditions of abundance and opulence for those whoentertain thoughts of courage and power.26. This is a difficult problem for many; we are too anxious; we manifest anxiety, fear,distress; we want to do something; we want to help; we are like a child who has justplanted a seed and every fifteen minutes goes and stirs up the earth to see if it isgrowing. Of course, under such circumstances, the seed will never germinate, and yetthis is exactly what many of us do in the mental world.27. We must plant the seed and leave it undisturbed. This does not mean that we are to sitdown and do nothing, by no means; we will do more and better work then we haveever done before, new channels will constantly be provided, new doors will open; allthat is necessary is to have an open mind, be ready to act when the time comes.28. Thought force is the most powerful means of obtaining knowledge, and if concentratedon any subject will solve the problem. Nothing is beyond the power of humancomprehension, but in order to harness thought force and make it do your bidding, workis required.29. Remember that thought is the fire that creates the steam that turns the wheel offortune, upon which your experiences depend.30. Ask yourself a few questions and then reverently await the response; do you not now andthen feel the self with you? Do you assert this self or do you follow the majority?Remember that majorities are always led, they never lead. It was the majority thatfought, tooth and nail, against the steam engine, the power loom and every other advanceor improvement ever suggested.5331. For your exercise this week, visualize your friend, see him exactly as you last saw him,see the room, the furniture, recall the conversation, now see his face, see it distinctly,now talk to him about some subject of mutual interest; see his expression change, watchhim smile. Can you do this? All right, you can; then arouse his interest, tell him a storyof adventure, see his eyes light up with the spirit of fun or excitement. Can you do all ofthis? If so, your imagination is good, you are making excellent progress.54PART SEVEN Study Questions with Answers61. What is visualization? The process of making mental pictures. 62. What is the result ofthis method of thought? By holding the image or picture in mind, we can gradually but surelybring the thing nearer to us. We can be what we will to be.63. What is Idealization? It is a process of visualizing or idealizing the plans which willeventually materialize in our objective world.64. Why are clearness and accuracy necessary? Because "seeing" creates "feeling" and"feeling" creates "being." First the mental, then the emotional, then the illimitable possibilities ofachievement.65. How are they obtained? Each repeated action renders the image more accurate than theformer one.66. How is the material for the construction of your mental image secured? Bymillions of mental workers. Brain cells they are called.67. How are the necessary conditions for bringing about the materialization of your idealin the objective world secured? By the Law of Attraction. The natural law by which allconditions and experiences are brought about.68. What three steps are necessary in order to bring this law into operation? Earnest Desire,Confident Expectation, Firm Demand.69. Why do many fail? Because they concentrate on loss, disease and disaster. The law isoperating perfectly; the things they fear are coming upon them.70. What is the alternative? Concentrate on the ideals which you desire to seemanifested in your life.55INTRODUCTION - PART EIGHTIn this Part you will find that you may freely choose what you think but the result of yourthought is governed by an immutable law! Is not this a wonderful thought? Is it not wonderfulto know that our lives are not subject to caprice or variability of any kind? That they aregoverned by law. This stability is our opportunity, because by complying with the law we cansecure the desired effect with invariable precision. It is the Law which makes the Universe onegrand paean of Harmony. If it were not for law, the Universe would be a Chaos instead of aCosmos.Here, then, is the secret of the origin of booth good and evil, this is all the good and evilthere ever was or ever will be.Let me illustrate. Thought results in action, if your thought is constructive and harmonious,the result will be good; if your thought is destructive or in harmonious, the result will be evil.There is therefore but one law, one principle, on cause, one Source of Power, and goodand evil are simply words which have been coined to indicate the result of our action, or ourcompliance or non-compliance with this law.The importance of this is well illustrated in the lives of Emerson and Carlyle. Emersonloved the good and his life was a symphony of peace and harmony, Carlyle hated the bad,and his life was a record of perpetual discord and inharmony.Here we have two grand men, each intent upon achieving the same ideal, but one makesuse of constructive thought and is therefore in harmony with Natural Law, the other makesuse of destructive thought and therefore brings upon himself discord of every kind andcharacter.It is evident therefore that we are to hate nothing, not even the "bad," because hatred isdestructive, and we shall soon find that by entertaining destructive thought we are sowing the"wind" and in turn shall reap the "whirlwind."56PART EIGHT1. Thought contains a vital principle, because it is the creative principle of theUniverse and by its nature will combine with other similar thoughts.2. As the one purpose of life is growth, all principles underlying existence must contributeto give it effect. Thought, therefore, takes form and the law of growth eventually bringsit into manifestation.3. You may freely choose what you think, but the result of your thought is governed by animmutable law. Any line of thought persisted in cannot fail to produce its result in thecharacter, health and circumstances of the individual. Methods whereby we can substitutehabits of constructive thinking for those which we have found produce only undesirableeffects are therefore of primary importance.4. We all know that this is by no means easy. Mental habits are difficult to control, but it canbe done and the way to do it is to begin at once to substitute constructive thought fordestructive thought. Form the habit of analyzing every thought. If it is necessary, if itsmanifestation in the objective will be a benefit, not only to yourself, but to all whom itmay affect in any way, keep it; treasure it; it is of value; it is in tune with the Infinite; itwill grow and develop and produce fruit an hundred fold. On the other hand, it will bewell for you to keep this quotation from George Matthews Adams, in mind, "Learn tokeep the door shut, keep out of your mind, out of your office, and out of your world,every element that seeks admittance with no definite helpful end in view."5. If your thought has been critical or destructive, and has resulted in any condition ofdiscord or inharmony in your environment, it may be necessary for you to cultivate amental attitude which will be conducive to constructive thought.6. The imagination will be found to be a great assistance in this direction; the cultivation ofthe imagination leads to the development of the ideal out of which your future willemerge.7. The imagination gathers up the material by which the Mind weaves the fabric in whichyour future is to be clothed.8. Imagination is the light by which we can penetrate new worlds of thought andexperience.9. Imagination is the mighty instrument by which every discoverer, every inventor, openedthe way from precedent to experience. Precedent said, "It cannot be done;" experiencesaid, "It is done."10. Imagination is a plastic power, molding the things of sense into new forms and ideals.5711. Imagination is the constructive form of thought which must precede everyconstructive form of action.12. A builder cannot build a structure of any kind until he has first received the plans fromthe architect, and the architect must get them from his imagination.13. The Captain of Industry cannot build a giant corporation which may coordinate hundredsof smaller corporations and thousands of employees, and utilize millions of dollars ofcapital until he has first created the entire work in his imagination. Objects in the materialworld are as clay in the potter's hand; it is in the Master Mind that the real things arecreated, and it is by the use of the imagination that the work is done. In order to cultivatethe imagination it must be exercised. Exercise is necessary to cultivate mental muscle aswell as physical muscle. It must be supplied with nourishment or it cannot grow.14. Do not confuse Imagination with Fancy, or that form of day dreaming in which somepeople like to indulge. Day dreaming is a form of mental dissipation which may lead tomental disaster.15. Constructive imagination means mental labor, by some considered to be the hardestkind of labor, but, if so, it yields the greatest returns, for all the great things in lifehave come to men and women who had the capacity to think, to imagine, and tomake their dreams come true.16. When you have become thoroughly conscious of the fact that Mind is the onlycreative principle, that it is Omnipotent, Omniscient and Omnipresent, and that you canconsciously come into harmony with this Omnipotence through your power of thought,you will have taken a long step in the right direction.17. The next step is to place yourself in position to receive this power. As it isOmnipresent, it must be within you. We know that this is so because we know that allpower is from within, but it must be developed, unfolded, cultivated; in order to dothis we must be receptive, and this receptivity is acquired just as physical strength isgained, by exercise.18. The law of attraction will certainly and unerringly bring to you the conditions,environment, and experiences in life, corresponding with your habitual, characteristic,predominant mental attitude. Not what you think once in a while when you are inchurch, or have just read a good book, BUT your predominant mental attitude is whatcounts.19. You can not entertain weak, harmful, negative thoughts ten hours a day and expect tobring about beautiful, strong and harmonious conditions by ten minutes of strong,positive, creative thought.5820. Real power comes from within. All power that anybody can possibly use is within man,only waiting to be brought into visibility by his first recognizing it, and then affirming it ashis, working it into his consciousness until he becomes one with it.21. People say that they desire abundant life, and so they do, but so many interpret this tomean that if they will exercise their muscles or breathe scientifically, eat certain foods incertain ways, drink so many glasses of water every day of just a certain temperature, keepout of drafts, they will attain the abundant life they seek. The result of such methods isbut indifferent. However, when man awakens to the truth, and affirms his oneness withall Life, he finds that he takes on the clear eye, the elastic step, the vigor of youth; hefinds that he has discovered the source of all power.22. All mistakes are but the mistakes of ignorance. Knowledge gaining and consequentpower is what determines growth and evolution. The recognition and demonstration ofknowledge is what constitutes power, and this power is spiritual power, and this spiritualpower is the power which lies at the heart of all things; it is the soul of the universe.23. This knowledge is the result of man's ability to think; thought is therefore the germ ofman's conscious evolution. When man ceases to advance in his thoughts and ideals, hisforces immediately begin to disintegrate and his countenance gradually registers thesechanging conditions.24. Successful men make it their business to hold ideals of the conditions which they wish torealize. They constantly hold in mind the next step necessary to the ideal for which they arestriving. Thoughts are the materials with which they build, and the imagination is theirmental work-shop. Mind is the ever moving force with which they secure the persons andcircumstance necessary to build their success structure, and imagination is the matrix inwhich all great things are fashioned.25. If you have been faithful to your ideal, you will hear the call when circumstances areready to materialize your plans and results will correspond in the exact ratio of yourfidelity to your ideal. The ideal steadily held is what pre-determines and attracts thenecessary conditions for its fulfillment.26. It is thus that you may weave a garment of spirit and power into the web of your entireexistence; it is thus that you may lead a charmed life and be forever protected from allharm; it is thus that you may become a positive force whereby conditions of opulenceand harmony may be attracted to you.27. This is the leaven which is gradually permeating the general consciousness and is largelyresponsible for the conditions of unrest which are everywhere evident.28. In the last Part you created a mental image, you brought it from the invisible into thevisible; this week I want you to take an object and follow it back to its59origination, see of what it really consists. If you do this you will develop imagination,insight, perception, and sagacity. These come not by the superficial observation of themultitude, but by a keen analytical observation which sees below the surface.29. It is the few who know that the things which they see are only effects, andunderstand the causes by which these effects were brought into existence.30. Take the same position as heretofore and visualize a Battleship; see the grim monsterfloating on the surface of the water; there appears to be no life anywhere about; all issilence; you know that by far the largest part of the vessel is under water; out of sight;you know that the ship is as large and as heavy as a twenty story skyscraper; you knowthat there are hundreds of men ready to spring to their appointed task instantly; you knowthat every department is in charge of able, trained, skilled officials who have proventhemselves competent to take charge of this marvelous piece of mechanism; you knowthat although it lies apparently oblivious to everything else, it has eyes which seeeverything for miles around, and nothing is permitted to escape its watchful vision; youknow that while it appears quiet, submissive and innocent, it is prepared to hurl a steelprojectile weighing thousands of pounds at an enemy many miles away; this and muchmore you can bring to mind with comparatively no effort whatever. But how did thebattleship come to be where it is; how did it come into existence in the first place? All ofthis you want to know if you are a careful observer.31. Follow the great steel plates through the foundries, see the thousands of men employed intheir production; go still further back, and see the ore as it comes from the mine, see itloaded on barges or cars, see it melted and properly treated; go back still further and seethe architect and engineers who planned the vessel; let the thought carry you back stillfurther in order to determine why they planned the vessel; you will see that you are nowso far back that the vessel is something intangible, it no longer exists, it is now only athought existing in the brain of the architect; but from where did the order come to planthe vessel? Probably from the Secretary of Defense; but probably this vessel was plannedlong before the war was thought of, and that Congress had to pass a bill appropriating themoney; possibly there was opposition, and speeches for or against the bill. Whom dothese Congressmen represent? They represent you and me, so that our line of thoughtbegins with the Battleship and ends with ourselves, and we find in the last analysis thatour own thought is responsible for this and many other things, of which we seldom think,and a little further reflection will develop the most important fact of all and that is, ifsomeone had not discovered the law by which this tremendous mass of steel and ironcould be made to float upon the water, instead of immediately going to the bottom, thebattleship could not have come into existence at all.32. This law is that, "the specific gravity of any substance is the weight of any volume of it,compared with an equal volume of water." The discovery of this law60revolutionized every kind of ocean travel, commerce and warfare, and made theexistence of the battleship, aircraft carriers, and cruise ships possible.33. You will find exercises of this kind invaluable. When the thought has been trained to lookbelow the surface everything takes on a different appearance, the insignificant becomessignificant, the uninteresting interesting; the things which we supposed to be of noimportance are seen to be the only really vital things in existence.Look To This DayFor it is Life, the very Life of Life.In Its brief course lie all the Verities andRealities of your existence;The Bliss of Growth;The Glory of Action;The Splendor of Beauty;For Yesterday is but a Dream,And tomorrow is only a Vision:But Today well lived makes everyYesterday a Dream of Happiness, andEvery Tomorrow a Vision of Hope.Look well, therefore, to This Day!- From the Sanskrit.61PART EIGHT Study Questions with Answers71. What is the imagination? A form of constructive thought. The light by which we penetratenew worlds of thought and experience. The mighty instrument by which every inventor ordiscoverer opened the way from precedent to experience. 72. What is the result ofimagination? The cultivation of the imagination leads to the development of the ideal out ofwhich your future will emerge.73. How may it be cultivated? By exercise; it must be supplied with nourishment or it cannotlive.74. How does imagination differ from day dreaming? Day dreaming is a form of mentaldissipation, while imagination is a form of constructive thought which must precede everyconstructive action.75. What are mistakes? The result of ignorance.76. What is knowledge? The result of man's ability to think.77. What is the power with which successful men build? Mind is the very moving force withwhich they secure the persons and circumstances necessary to complete their plans.78. What pre-determines the result? The ideal held steadily in mind attracts thenecessary conditions for its fulfillment.79. What is the result of a keen analytical observation? The development ofimagination, insight, perception and sagacity.80. To what do these lead? Opulence and harmony.62INTRODUCTION - PART NINEIn this Part you may learn to fashion the tools by which you may build for yourself anycondition you desire.If you wish to change conditions you must change yourself. Your whims, your wishes, yourfancies, your ambitions may be thwarted at every step, but your inmost thoughts will findexpression just as certainly as the plant springs from the seed.Suppose, then, we desire to change conditions, how are we to bring this about? The reply issimple: By the law of growth. Cause and effect are as absolute and undeviating in the hiddenrealm of thought as in the world of material things.Hold in mind the condition desired; affirm it as an already existing fact. This indicates the valueof a powerful affirmation. By constant repetition it becomes a part of ourselves. We are actuallychanging ourselves; are making ourselves what we want to be.Character is not a thing of chance, but it is the result of continued effort. If you are timid,vacillating, self-conscious, or if you are over-anxious or harassed by thoughts of fear orimpending danger, remember that is axiomatic that "two things cannot exist in the same place atthe same time." Exactly the same thing is true in the mental and spiritual world; so that yourremedy is plainly to substitute thoughts of courage, power, self reliance and confidence, for thoseof fear, lack and limitation.The easiest and most natural way to do this is to select an affirmation which seems to fit yourparticular case. The positive thought will destroy the negative as certainly as light destroysdarkness, and the results will be just as effectual.Act is the blossom of thought, and conditions are the result of action, so that youconstantly have in your possession the tools by which you will certainly and inevitably makeor unmake yourself, and joy or suffering will be the reward.63PART NINE1. There are only three things which can possibly be desired in the "world without" and eachof them can be found in the "world within." The secret of finding them is simply to applythe proper "mechanism" of attachment to the omnipotent power to which each individualhas access.2. The three things which all mankind desires and which are necessary for his highestexpression and complete development are Health, Wealth and Love. All will admit thatHealth is absolutely essential; no one can be happy if the physical body is in pain. Allwill not so readily admit that Wealth is necessary, but all must admit that a sufficientsupply at least is necessary, and what would be considered sufficient for one, would beconsidered absolute and painful lack for another; and as Nature provides not only enoughbut abundantly, wastefully, lavishly, we realize that any lack or limitation is only thelimitation which has been made by an artificial method of distribution.3. All will probably admit that Love is the third, or maybe some will say the first essentialnecessary to the happiness of mankind; at any rate, those who possess all three, Health,Wealth, and Love, find nothing else which can be added to their cup of happiness.4. We have found that the Universal substance is "All Health," "All Substance" and "AllLove" and that the mechanism of attachment whereby we can consciously connect withthis Infinite supply is in our method of thinking. To think correctly is therefore to enterinto the "Secret Place of the Most High."5. What shall we think? If we know this we shall have found the proper mechanism ofattachment which will relate us to "Whatsoever things we desire." This mechanism mayseem very simple when I give it to you, but read on; you will find that it is in reality the"Master-Key," the "Alladin's lamp," if you please; you will find that it is the foundation,the imperative condition, the absolute law of well-doing, which means, well-being.6. To think correctly, accurately, we must know the "Truth." The truth then is theunderlying principle in every business or social relation. It is a condition precedent toevery right action. To know the truth, to be sure, to be confident, affords asatisfaction beside which no other is at all comparable; it is the only solid ground in aworld of doubt, conflict and danger.7. To know the Truth is to be in harmony with the Infinite and Omnipotent power. To knowthe truth is, therefore, to connect yourself with a power which is irresistible and whichwill sweep away every kind of discord, inharmony, doubt or error of any kind, becausethe "Truth is mighty and will prevail."648. The humblest intellect can readily foretell the result of any action when he knows that it isbased on truth, but the mightiest intellect, the most profound and penetrating mind losesits way hopelessly and can form no conception of the results which may ensue when hishopes are based on a premise which he knows to be false.9. Every action which is not in harmony with Truth, whether through ignorance or design,will result in discord, and eventual loss in proportion to its extent and character.10. How then are we to know the truth in order to attach this mechanism which will relateus to the Infinite?11. We can make no mistake about this if we realize that truth is the vital principle of theUniversal Mind and is Omnipresent. For instance, if you require health, a realization ofthe fact that the "I" in you is spiritual and that all spirit is one; that wherever a part is thewhole must be, will bring about a condition of health, because every cell in the bodymust manifest the truth as you see it. If you see sickness; they will manifest sickness; ifyou see perfection they must manifest perfection. The affirmation, "I am whole, perfect,strong, powerful, loving, harmonious and happy”, will bring about harmoniousconditions. The reason for this is because the affirmation is in strict accordance with theTruth, and when truth appears every form of error or discord must necessarily disappear.12. You have found that the "I" is spiritual, it must necessarily then always be no less thanperfect, the affirmation. "I am whole, perfect, strong, powerful, loving, harmonious andhappy" is therefore an exact scientific statement.13. Thought is a spiritual activity and spirit is creative, therefore the result of holding thisthought in mind, must necessarily bring about conditions in harmony with the thought.14. If you require Wealth a realization of the fact that the "I" in you is one with theUniversal mind which is all substance, and is Omnipotent, will assist you in bringinginto operation the law of attraction which will bring you into vibration with thoseforces which make for success and bring about conditions of power and affluence indirect proportion with the character and purpose of your affirmation.15. Visualization is the mechanism of the attachment which you require. Visualization is avery different process from seeing; seeing is physical, and is therefore related to theobjective world, the "world without," but Visualization is a product of the imagination,and is therefore a product of the subjective mind, the "world within." It thereforepossesses vitality; it will grow. The thing visualized will manifest itself in form. Themechanism is perfect; it was created by the Master Architect who "doeth all things well,"but unfortunately sometimes the65operator is inexperienced or inefficient, but practice and determination willovercome this defect.16. If you require Love try to realize that the only way to get love is by giving it, that themore you give the more you will get, and the only way in which you can give it, is to fillyourself with it, until you become a magnet. The method was explained in anotherlesson.17. He who has learned to bring the greatest spiritual truths into touch with the so calledlesser things of life has discovered the secret of the solution of his problem. One isalways quickened, made more thoughtful, by his nearness of approach to great ideas,great events, great natural objects, and great men. Lincoln is said to have begotten in allwho came near him the feeling awakened when one approaches a mountain, and thissense asserts itself most keenly when one comes to realize that he has laid hold uponthings that are eternal, the power of Truth.18. It is sometimes an inspiration to hear from someone who has actually put theseprinciples to the test, someone who has demonstrated them in their own life. A letterfrom Frederick Andrews offers the following insight:19. I was about thirteen years old when Dr. T. W. Marsee, since passed over, said to mymother: "There is no possible chance, Mrs. Andrews. I lost my little boy the same way,after doing everything for him that it was possible to do. I have made a special study ofthese cases, and I know there is no possible chance for him to get well."20. She turned to him and said: "Doctor, what would you do if he were your boy?" and heanswered, "I would fight, fight, as long as there is a breath of life to fight for."21. That was the beginning of a long drawn-out battle, with many ups and downs, thedoctors all agreeing that there was no chance for a cure, though they encouraged andcheered us the best they could.22. But at last the victory came, and I have grown from a little, crooked, twisted, cripple,going about on my hands and knees, to a strong, straight, well formed man.23. Now, I know you want the formula, and I will give it to you as briefly and quickly as Ican.24. I built up an affirmation for myself, taking the qualities I most needed, and affirming formyself over and over again, "I am whole, perfect, strong, powerful, loving, harmoniousand happy." I kept up this affirmation, always the same, never varying, till I could wakeup in the night and find myself repeating, "I am whole,66perfect, strong, powerful, loving, harmonious and happy." It was the last thing on mylips at night and the first thing in the morning.25. Not only did I affirm it for myself, but for others that I knew needed it. I want toemphasize this point. Whatever you desire for yourself, affirm it for others, and it willhelp you both. We reap what we sow. If we send out thoughts of love and health, theyreturn to us like bread cast upon the waters; but if we send out thoughts of fear, worry,jealousy, anger, hate, etc., we will reap the results in our own lives.26. It used to be said that man is completely built over every seven years, but some scientistsnow declare that we build ourselves over entirely every eleven months; so we are reallyonly eleven months old. If we build the defects back into our bodies year after year, wehave no one to blame but ourselves.27. Man is the sum total of his own thoughts; so the question is, how are we going toentertain only the good thoughts and reject the evil ones? At first we can't keep the evilthoughts from coming, but we can keep from entertaining them. The only way to do thisis to forget them -- which means, get something for them. This is where the ready-madeaffirmation comes into play.28. When a thought of anger, jealousy, fear or worry creeps in, just start your affirmationgoing. The way to fight darkness is with light -- the way to fight cold is with heat -- theway to overcome evils is with good. For myself, I never could find any help in denials.Affirm the good, and the bad will vanish. - Frederick Elias Andrews29. If there is anything you require, it will be well for you to make use of this affirmation; itcannot be improved upon. Use it just as it is; take it into the silence with you, until itsinks into your subconsciousness, so that you can use it anywhere, in your car, in theoffice, at home; this is the advantage of spiritual methods; they are always available.Spirit is omnipresent, every ready; all that is required is a proper recognition of itsomnipotence, and a willingness or desire to become the recipient of its beneficenteffects.30. If our predominant mental attitude is one of power, courage, kindliness and sympathy, weshall find that our environment will reject conditions in correspondence with thesethoughts; if it is weak, critical, envious and destructive, we shall find our environmentreflecting conditions corresponding to these thoughts.31. Thoughts are causes and conditions are effects. Herein is the explanation of the origin ofboth good and evil. Thought is creative and will automatically correlate with its object.This is a Cosmological law (a universal law), the law of Attraction, the law of Causeand Effect; the recognition and application of this law will determine both beginningand end; it is the law by which in all ages and67in all times the people were led to believe in the power of prayer. "As thy faith is, so beit unto thee," is simply another, shorter and a better way of stating it.32. This week visualize a plant; take a flower, the one you most admire, bring it from theunseen into the seen, plant the tiny seed, water it, care for it, place it where it will get thedirect rays of the morning sun, see the seed burst; it is now a living thing, somethingwhich is alive and beginning to search for the means of subsistence. See the rootspenetrating the earth, watch them shoot out in all directions and remember that they areliving cells dividing and subdividing, and that they will soon number millions, that eachcell is intelligent, that it knows what is wants and knows how to get it. See the stemshoot forward and upward, watch it burst through the surface of the earth, see it divideand form branches, see how perfect and symmetrical each branch is formed, see theleaves begin to form, and then the tiny stems, each one holding aloft a bud, and as youwatch you see the bud begin to unfold and your favorite flower comes to view; and nowif you will concentrate intently you will become conscious of a fragrance; it is thefragrance of the flower as the breeze gently sways the beautiful creation which you havevisualized.33. When you are enabled to make your vision clear and complete you will be enabled toenter into the spirit of a thing; it will become very real to you; you will be learning toconcentrate and the process is the same, whether you are concentrating on health, afavorite flower, an ideal, a complicated business proposition or any other problem oflife.34. Every success has been accomplished by persistent concentration upon the object inview.68PART NINE Study Questions with Answers81. What is the imperative condition of all well-being? Well doing. 82. What is thecondition precedent to every right action? Right thinking. 83. What is the underlyingcondition necessary in every business transaction or social relation? To know theTruth.84. What is the result of a knowledge of the Truth? We can readily predict the result of anyaction that is based upon a true premise.85. What is the result of any action based upon a false premise? We can form noconception of the results which may ensue.86. How may we know the Truth? By a realization of the fact that Truth is the vitalprinciple of the Universe and is therefore omnipresent.87. What is the nature of Truth? It is spiritual.88. What is the secret of the solution to every problem? To apply spiritual Truth. 89.What is the advantage of spiritual methods? They are always available. 90. What arethe necessary requirements? A recognition of the omnipotence of spiritual power and adesire to become the recipient of its beneficent effects."Thought means life, since those who do not think do not live in any high or real sense.Thinking makes the man." - A. B. Alcott69INTRODUCTION - PART TENIf you get a thorough understanding or the thought contained in Part Ten, you will havelearned that nothing happens without a definite cause. You will be enabled to formulate yourplans in accordance with exact knowledge. You will know how to control any situation bybringing adequate causes into play. When you win, as you will, you will know exactly why.The ordinary man, who has no definite knowledge of cause and effect, is governed by hisfeelings or emotions. He thinks chiefly to justify his action. If he fails as a businessman, he saysthat luck is against him. If he dislikes music, he says that music is an expensive luxury. If he is apoor office man, he says that he could succeed better at some outdoor work. If he lacks friends,he says his individuality is too fine to be appreciated.He never thinks his problem through to the end. In short, he does not know that every effectis the result of a certain definite cause, but he seeks to console himself with explanations andexcuses. He thinks only in self-defense.On the contrary, the man who understands that there is no effect without an adequate causethinks impersonally. He gets down to bed rock facts regardless of consequences. He is free tofollow the trail of truth wherever it may lead. He sees the issue clear to the end, and he meets therequirements fully and fairly, and the result is that the world gives him all that it has to give, infriendship, honor, love and approval.70PART TEN1. Abundance is a natural law of the Universe. The evidence of this law is conclusive; we seeit on every hand. Everywhere Nature is lavish, wasteful, extravagant. Nowhere iseconomy observed in any created thing. Profusion is manifested in everything. Themillions and millions of trees and flowers and plants and animals and the vast scheme ofreproduction where the process of creating and recreating is forever going on, allindicates the lavishness with which Nature has made provision for man. That there is anabundance for everyone is evident, but that many fail to participate in this abundance isalso evident; they have not yet come into a realization of the Universality of allsubstance, and that mind is the active principle whereby we are related to the things wedesire.2. All wealth is the offspring of power; possessions are of value only as they confer power.Events are significant only as they affect power; all things represent certain forms anddegrees of power.3. Knowledge of cause and effect as shown by the laws governing electricity, chemicalaffinity and gravitation, enables man to plan courageously and execute fearlessly.These laws are called Natural Laws, because they govern in the physical world, but allpower is not physical power; there is also mental power, and there is moral andspiritual power.4. Spiritual power is superior because it exists on a higher plane. It has enabled man todiscover the law by which these wonderful forces of Nature could be harnessed and madeto do the work of hundreds and thousands of men. It has enabled man to discover lawswhereby time and space have been annihilated and the law of gravitation to be overcome.The operation of this law is dependent upon spiritual contact, as Henry Drummond wellsays:5. "In the physical world as we know it, there exists the organic and the inorganic. Theinorganic of the mineral world is absolutely cut off from the plant or animal world; thepassage is hermetically sealed. These barriers have never yet been crossed. No changeof substance, no modification of environment, no chemistry, no electricity, no form ofenergy, no evolution of any kind can ever endow a single atom of the mineral worldwith the attribute of Life.”6. "Only by the bending down into this dead world of some living form can those dead atomsbe gifted with the properties of vitality; without this contact with life they remain fixed inthe inorganic sphere forever. Huxley says that the doctrine of Biogenesis (or life onlyfrom life) is victorious all along the line, and Tyndall is compelled to say: 'I affirm thatno shred of trustworthy evidence exists to prove that life in our day has ever appearedindependent of antecedent life.'7. "Physical laws may explain the inorganic, Biology explains and accounts for thedevelopment of the organic, but of the point of contact Science is silent. A similar71passage exists between the Natural world and the Spiritual world; this passage ishermetically sealed on the natural side. The door is closed; no man can open it, noorganic change, no mental energy, no moral effort, no progress of any kind can enableany human being to enter the spiritual world."8. But as the plant reaches down into the mineral world and touches it with the mystery ofLife, so the Universal Mind reaches down into the human mind and endows it with new,strange, wonderful and even marvelous qualities. All men or women who have everyaccomplished anything in the world of industry, commerce or art have accomplishedbecause of this process.9. Thought is the connecting link between the Infinite and the finite, between the Universaland the individual. We have seen that there is an impassable barrier between the organicand the inorganic, and that the only way that matter can unfold is to be impregnated withlife; as a seed reaches down into the mineral world and begins to unfold and reach out,the dead matter begins to live, a thousand invisible fingers begin to weave a suitableenvironment for the new arrival, and as the law of growth begins to take effect, we seethe process continue until the Lily finally appears, and even "Solomon in all his glorywas not arrayed like one of these".10. Even so, a thought is dropped into the invisible substance of the Universal Mind, thatsubstance from which all things are created, and as it takes root, the law of growthbegins to take effect and we find that conditions and environment are but the objectiveform of our thought.11. The law is that Thought is an active vital form of dynamic energy which has the powerto correlate with its object and bring it out of the invisible substance from which allthings are created into the visible or objective world. This is the law by which, andthrough which all things come into manifestation; it is the Master Key by which you areadmitted into the Secret Place of the Most High and are "given dominion over allthings." With an understanding of this law you may "decree a thing and it shall beestablished unto thee."12. It could not be otherwise; if the soul of the Universe as we know it is the UniversalSpirit, then the Universe is simply the condition which the Universal Spirit has made foritself. We are simply individualized spirit and are creating the conditions for our growthin exactly the same way.13. This creative power depends upon our recognition of the potential power of spirit ormind and must not be confused with Evolution. Creation is the calling into existence ofthat which does not exist in the objective world. Evolution is simply the unfolding ofpotentialities involved in things which already exist.14. In taking advantage of the wonderful possibilities opened up to us through the operationof this law, we must remember that we ourselves contribute nothing to72its efficacy as the Great Teacher said: "It is not I that doeth the works, but the Father thatdwelleth in me, He doeth the work". We must take exactly the same position; we can donothing to assist in the manifestation, we simply comply with the law, and the Alloriginating Mind will bring about the result.15. The great error of the present day is the idea that Man has to originate the intelligencewhereby the Infinite can proceed to bring about a specific purpose or result. Nothing ofthis kind is necessary; the Universal Mind can be depended upon to find the ways andmeans for bringing about any necessary manifestation. We must, however, create theideal, and this ideal should be perfect.16. We know that the laws governing Electricity have been formulated in such a way that thisinvisible power can be controlled and used for our benefit and comfort in thousands ofways. We know that messages are carried around the world, that ponderous machinerydoes its bidding, that it now illuminates practically the whole world, but we know toothat if we consciously or ignorantly violate its law by touching a live wire, when it is notproperly insulated, the result will be unpleasant and possibly disastrous. A lack ofunderstanding of the laws governing in the invisible world has the same result, and manyare suffering the consequences all the time.17. It has been explained that the law of causation depends upon polarity, a circuit must beformed; this circuit cannot be formed unless we operate in harmony with the law. Howshall we operate in harmony with the law unless we know what the law is? How shallwe know what the Law is? By study, by observation.18. We see the law in operation everywhere; all nature testifies to the operation of the law bysilently, constantly expressing itself in the law of growth. Where there is growth, theremust be life; where there is life there must be harmony, so that everything that has life isconstantly attracting to itself the conditions and the supply which is necessary for itsmost complete expression.19. If your thought is in harmony with the creative Principle of Nature, it is in tune withthe Infinite Mind, and it will form the circuit, it will not return to you void; but it ispossible for you to think thoughts that are not in tune with the Infinite, and when thereis no polarity, the circuit is not formed. What, then, is the result? What is the resultwhen a dynamo is generating electricity, the circuit is cut off and there is no outlet?The dynamo stops.20. It will be exactly the same with you, if you entertain thoughts which are not inaccordance with the Infinite and cannot therefore be polarized; there is no circuit, youare isolated, the thoughts cling to you, harass you, worry you, and finally bring aboutdisease and possibly death; the physician may not diagnose the case exactly in this way,he may give it some fancy name which has been manufactured for the various ills whichare the result of wrong thinking, but the cause is the same nevertheless.7321. Constructive thought must necessarily be creative, but creative thought must be harmonious, and thiseliminates all destructive or competitive thought. Wisdom, strength, courage and all harmoniousconditions are the result of power and we have seen that all power is from within; likewise, every lack,limitation or adverse circumstance is the result of weakness, and weakness is simply absence of power;it comes from nowhere, it is nothing -- the remedy then is simply to develop power, and this isaccomplished in exactly the same manner that all power is developed, by exercise.22. This exercise consists in making an application of your knowledge. Knowledge will not apply itself.You must make the application. Abundance will not come to you out of the sky, neither will it drop intoyour lap, but a conscious realization of the law of attraction and the intention to bring it into operation fora certain, definite and specific purpose, and the will to carry out this purpose will bring about thematerialization of your desire by a natural law of transference. If you are in business, it will increase anddevelop along regular channels, possibly new or unusual channels of distribution will be opened andwhen the law becomes fully operative, you will find that the things you seek are seeking you.23. This week select a blank space on the wall, or any other convenient spot, from where you usually sit,mentally draw a black horizontal line about six inches long, try to see the line as plainly as though it werepainted on the wall; now mentally draw two vertical lines connecting with this horizontal line at eitherend; now draw another horizontal line connecting with the two vertical lines; now you have a square.Try to see the square perfectly; when you can do so draw a circle within the square; now place a point inthe center of the circle; now draw the point toward you about 10 inches; now you have a cone on a squarebase; you will remember that your work was all in black; change it to white, to red, to yellow.24. If you can do this, you are making excellent progress and will soon be enabled to concentrate on anyproblem you may have in mind. "When any object or purpose is clearly held in thought, its precipitation,in tangible and visible form, is merely a question of time.“The vision always precedes and itself determines the realization.” - Lillian Whiting 74PART TEN Study Questions with Answers91. What is Wealth? Wealth is the offspring of power.92. Of what value are possessions? Possessions are of value only as they confer power. 93. Ofwhat value is a knowledge of cause and effect? It enables men to plan courageously andexecute fearlessly.94. How does life originate in the inorganic world? Only by the introduction of some livingform. There is no other way.95. What is the connecting link between the finite and the Infinite? Thought is theconnecting link.96. Why is that so? Because the Universal can manifest only through the individual. 97.Upon what does causation depend? Upon polarity; a circuit must be formed; the Universalis the positive side of the battery of life, the individual is the negative, and thought forms thecircuit.98. Why do many fail to secure harmonious conditions? They do not understand the law;there is no polarity; they have not formed the circuit.99. What is the remedy? A conscious recognition of the law of attraction with theintention of bring it into existence for a definite purpose.100. What will be the result? Thought will correlate with its object and bring it intomanifestation, because thought is a product of the spiritual man, and spirit is the creativePrinciple of the Universe.“A vivid thought brings the power to paint it; and in proportion to the depth of its source is theforce of its projection.” - Emerson75INTRODUCTION - PART ELEVENYour life is governed by law - by actual, immutable principles that never vary. Law is inoperation at all times; in all places. Fixed laws underlie all human actions. For this reason, menwho control giant industries are enabled to determine with absolute precision just whatpercentage of every hundred thousand people will respond to any given set of conditions.It is well, however, to remember that while every effect is the result of a cause, the effect in turnbecomes a cause, which creates other effects, which in turn create still other causes; so that whenyou put the law of attraction into operation you must remember thatyou are starting a train of causation for good or otherwise which may have endlesspossibilities.We frequently hear it said, "A very distressing situation came into my life, which could not havebeen the result of my thought, as I certainly never entertained any thought which could havesuch a result." We fail to remember that like attracts like in the mentalworld, and that the thought which we entertain brings to us certain friendships,companionships of a particular kind, and these in turn bring about conditions andenvironment, which in turn are responsible for the conditions of which we complain.76PART ELEVEN1. Inductive reasoning is the process of the objective mind by which we compare a numberof separate instances with one another until we see the common factor that gives rise tothem all.2. Induction proceeds by comparison of facts; it is this method of studying nature which hasresulted in the discovery of a reign of law which has marked an epoch in humanprogress.3. It is the dividing line between superstition and intelligence; it has eliminated the elementsof uncertainty and caprice from men's lives and substituted law, reason, and certitude.4. It is the "Watchman at the Gate" mentioned in a former lesson.5. When, by virtue of this principle, the world to which the senses were accustomed hadbeen revolutionized; when the sun had been arrested in his course, the apparently flatearth had been shaped into a ball and set whirling around him; when the inert matter hadbeen resolved into active elements, and the universe presented itself wherever wedirected the telescope and microscope, full of force, motion and life; we are constrainedto ask by what possible means the delicate forms of organization in the midst of it arekept in order and repair.6. Like poles and like forces repel themselves or remain impenetrable to each other, and thiscause seems in general sufficient to assign a proper place and distance to stars, men andforces. As men of different virtues enter into partnership, so do opposite poles attracteach other, elements that have no property in common like acids and gases cling to eachother in preference and a general exchange is kept up between the surplus and thedemand.7. As the eye seeks and receives satisfaction from colors complementary to those which aregiven, so does need, want and desire, in the largest sense, induce, guide and determineaction.8. It is our privilege to become conscious of the principle and act in accordance with it.Cuvier sees a tooth belonging to an extinct race of animals. This tooth wants a body forthe performance of its function, and it defines the peculiar body it stands in need of withsuch precision that Cuvier is able to reconstruct the frame of this animal.9. Perturbations are observed in the motion of Uranus. Leverrier needs another star at acertain place to keep the solar system in order, and Neptune appears in the place andhour appointed.7710. The instinctive wants of the animal and the intellectual wants of Cuvier, the wants ofnature and of the mind of Leverrier were alike, and thus the results; here the thoughts of anexistence, there an existence. A well-defined lawful want, therefore, furnishes the reason forthe more complex operations of nature.11. Having recorded correctly the answers furnished by nature and stretched our senses withthe growing science over her surface; having joined hands with the levers that move theearth; we become conscious of such a close, varied and deep contact with the worldwithout, that our wants and purposes become no less identified with the harmoniousoperations of this vast organization, than the life, liberty, and happiness of the citizen isidentified with the existence of his government.12. As the interests of the individual are protected by the arms of the country, added to hisown; and his needs may depend upon certain supply in the degree that they are felt moreuniversally and steadily; in the same manner does conscious citizenship in the Republicof nature secure us from the annoyances of subordinate agents by alliance with superiorpowers; and by appeal to the fundamental laws of resistance or inducement offered tomechanical or chemical agents, distribute the labor to be performed between them andman to the best advantage of the inventor.13. If Plato could have witnessed the pictures executed by the sun with the assistance of thephotographer, or a hundred similar illustrations of what man does by induction, he wouldperhaps have been reminded of the intellectual midwifery of his master and, in his ownmind might have arisen the vision of a land where all manual, mechanical labor andrepetition is assigned to the power of nature, where our wants are satisfied by purelymental operations set in motion by the will, and where the supply is created by thedemand.14. However distant that land may appear, induction has taught men to make stridestoward it and has surrounded him with benefits which are, at the same time, rewardsfor past fidelity and incentives for more assiduous devotion.15. It is also an aid in concentrating and strengthening our faculties for the remaining part,giving unerring solution for individual as well as universal problems, by the mereoperations of mind in the purest form.16. Here we find a method, the spirit of which is, to believe that what is sought has been17. accomplished, in order to accomplish it: a method, bequeathed upon us by the samePlato who, outside of this sphere, could never find how the ideas became realities.18. This conception is also elaborated by Swedenborg in his doctrine ofcorrespondences; and a still greater teacher has said, "What things soever ye78desire, when ye pray, believe that ye receive them, and ye shall have them." (Mark11:24) The difference of the tenses in this passage is remarkable.19. We are first to believe that our desire has already been fulfilled, its accomplishment willthen follow. This is a concise direction for making use of the creative power of thoughtby impressing on the Universal subjective mind, the particular thing which we desire asan already existing fact.20. We are thus thinking on the plane of the absolute and eliminating all considerationof conditions or limitation and are planting a seed which, if left undisturbed, willfinally germinate into external fruition.21. To review: Inductive reasoning is the process of the objective mind, by which wecompare a number of separate instances with one another until we see the commonfactor that gives rise to them all. We see people in every civilized country on the globe,securing results by some process which they do not seem to understand themselves, andto which they usually attach more or less mystery. Our reason is given to us for thepurpose of ascertaining the law by which these results are accomplished.22. The operation of this thought process is seen in those fortunate natures that possesseverything that others must acquire by toil, who never have a struggle with consciencebecause they always act correctly, and can never conduct themselves otherwise thanwith tact, learn everything easily, complete everything they begin with a happy knack,live in eternal harmony with themselves, without ever reflecting much what they do, orever experiencing difficulty or toil.23. The fruit of this thought is, as it were, a gift of the gods, but a gift which few as yetrealize, appreciate, or understand. The recognition of the marvelous power which ispossessed by the mind under proper conditions and the fact that this power can beutilized, directed, and made available for the solution of every human problem is oftranscendental importance.24. All truth is the same, whether stated in modern scientific terms or in the language ofapostolic times. There are timid souls who fail to realize that the very completeness oftruth requires various statement -- that no one human formula will show every side of it.25. Changing, emphasis, new language, novel interpretations, unfamiliar perspectives, arenot, as some suppose, signs of departure from truth but on the contrary, they are evidencethat the truth is being apprehended in new relations to human needs, and is becomingmore generally understood.26. The truth must be told to each generation and to every people in new and different terms,so that when the Great Teacher said -- "Believe that ye receive and ye shall receive" or,when Paul said -- "Faith is the substance of things hoped for, the79evidence of things not seen" or, when modern science says -- "The law of attraction isthe law by which thought correlates with its object", each statement when subjected toanalysis, is found to contain exactly the same truth. The only difference being in theform of presentation.27. We are standing on the threshold of a new era. The time has arrived when man haslearned the secrets of mastery and the way is being prepared for a new social order, morewonderful than anything every heretofore dreamed of. The conflict of modern sciencewith theology, the study of comparative religions, the tremendous power of new socialmovements, all of these are but clearing the way for the new order. They may havedestroyed traditional forms which have become antiquated and impotent, but nothing ofvalue has been lost.28. A new faith has been born, a faith which demands a new form of expression, and thisfaith is taking form in a deep consciousness of power which is being manifested, in thepresent spiritual activity found on every hand.29. The spirit which sleeps in the mineral, breathes in the vegetable, moves in the animaland reaches its highest development in man is the Universal Mind, and it behooves us tospan the gulf between being and doing, theory and practice, by demonstrating ourunderstanding of the dominion which we have been given.30. By far the greatest discovery of all the centuries is the power of thought. Theimportance of this discovery has been a little slow in reaching the generalconsciousness, but it has arrived, and already in every field of research the importanceof this greatest of all great discoveries is being demonstrated.31. You ask in what does the creative power of thought consist? It consists in creating ideas,and these in turn objectify themselves by appropriating, inventing, observing, discerning,discovering, analyzing, ruling, governing, combining, and applying matter and force. Itcan do this because it is an intelligent creative power.32. Thought reaches its loftiest activity when plunged into its own mysterious depth; when itbreaks through the narrow compass of self and passes from truth to truth to the region ofeternal light, where all which is, was or ever will be, melt into one grand harmony.33. From this process of self contemplation comes inspiration which is creative intelligence,and which is undeniably superior to every element, force or law of nature, because it canunderstand, modify, govern and apply them to its own ends and purposes and thereforepossess them.34. Wisdom begins with the dawn of reason, and reason is but an understanding of theknowledge and principles whereby we may know the true meaning of things.80